Title: Fly Up and Down Trails on the Bulls E-CORE

Text: Price: $5,999 Weight: 50 lbs. (medium) Battery Capacity: 500Wh Motor: Shimano STePS 250 watt/70 Nm Travel: 150mm Fork Travel: 150mm The right bike for: extending your day in the saddle on trail rides with long, steep climbs Learn More More Images Despite recent improvements in the ascending abilities of longer-travel trail and enduro bikes, climbing usually comes second to descending prowess. Without the luxury of a chair lift, pedaling to the top of the mountain uses energy that could otherwise be spent on longer days in the saddle. For some, that's just fine. For others, there's the Bull's E-CORE Di2 FS 27.5+. It’s a 150mm-travel e-bike that can tackle big descents, rides great on flowier trails, and provides a generous boost for the trip back to the top. The pedal assistance comes from Shimano's compact STePS E8000 motor that weighs only 6.2 pounds and offers assist up to 20mph. Shifting is motorized too, with Shimano's exemplary XT Di2 drivetrain providing the most precise and consistent shifts a mountain bike can have. The fun comes from the E-CORE's 150mm of front and rear travel courtesy of a RockShox Yari fork and Deluxe RT shock. Both be locked out for on long, fire-road type climbs, though on an e-bike that feature feels less necessary. Five Cool Details Bulls E-Core Detail Gallery Big Travel The 150mm-travel rear suspension offers an extra smooth ride Dropper Post The RockShox Reverb dropper helps you descend more confidently. Controlled Stopping Power Magura four-piston front caliper provides greater control Plus Tires Schwalbe 27.5+ Tires have good grip and low rolling resistance Downtube Battery Downtube battery placement distributes weight evenly. The Bulls Family In addition to the E-CORE family, Bulls offers seven other full-suspension e-bike models. The other bikes cover a range of categories—fat bikes, 29ers, women's specific—and use most of the popular motor systems, including Bosch, Brose, and Shimano. In the E-CORE line, Bulls offers the bike reviewed here, and one more option, the E-CORE EVO EN Di2 27.5+, which has 180mm front and rear travel and costs and additional $1,800. This model uses a RockShox Lyrik fork, Fox Float X2 shock, DT-Swiss wheels, and Shimano Saint brakes that are better suited to downhill riding. Both versions of the E-CORE come with the Shimano E8000 drivetrain. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. View 24 Images The E-CORE has electronic shifting to as well as an electric motor. Trevor Raab Light and Compact Shimano STePS Motor The E-CORE Di2 FS 27.5+ is built around Shimano's STePS motor, which is one of the smallest and lightest (6.2 lbs.) available. It's also one of the narrowest also, so the pedals are no further apart than they are on an acoustic Shimano drivetrain. With the STePS motor, this bike looks almost like a non-powered mountain bike, and a little less like some e-bikes. The STEPS motor has three assist modes: eco, trail, and boost. In eco mode, the ride feels natural and almost as if there is no pedal assist. It won’t give you the power you need to get up anything extraordinarily steep, but it offsets the bike’s weight so riding on trails feels almost like any other bike. The trail and boost modes take the assistance up a notch for steeper climbs, or just more speed. There’s also a handy walk mode that helps you push the bike up steep or technical inclines that you can’t quite clean. It’s easy to toggle between the modes thanks to the switch on the left side of the handlebar.  The display shows the current assist mode, with a distinct color for each that makes them identifiable with a quick glance. It will also show speed, battery life, and current gear selection. 3 Great E-Bikes for Different Types of Rides Benno e-Joy $3,200 bennobikes.com Buy Now So joyful! Looks like a vintage Italian scooter and is just as fun to zip around town on. Pivot Shuttle $10,000 pivotcycles.com Buy Now Skip the lift to ride up and romp down big mountains all day with this elite-level e-mountain bike. Road E+ Pro $4,650 giant-bicycles.com Buy Now We rode our favorite local roads—and safely sat in group rides—with this smooth-sailing machine. Tech to Compliment Shimano STEPS The 35mm stanchions on the RockShox Yari RC help the fork from deflecting when you bang into rocks or send this 50 pounder off a drop. 2.8-inch-wide Schwalbe tires give extra traction and cushion without too much extra weight or rolling resistance. Slowing this beast down is a Magura blend: a four-piston caliper up front, and a two piston caliper in the rear. The two piston rear caliper saves a bit of weight, while the four-piston caliper should offer more power and fade resistance. The Di2 electronic drivetrain is powered off the motor's battery, so there's no need for a second battery, which saves weight and space. Plus, one less thing to charge is always welcome.  Ride Impressions The E-CORE Di2 FS 27.5+ is a long-travel bike with plus tires and burly components. Thought it looks like it's ready for the burliest and most technical terrain, it works best on smooth and flowing trails. View 24 Images 150mm of travel for super fun times Trevor Raab On those trails, this bike was a blast. The boost and trail modes give immediate, powerful assistance as soon as you start to turn the cranks, and help make climbing almost as much fun as descending. The smooth suspension helped the Bulls fly through choppy sections with little trouble. But while generous travel and e-assist would seem advantageous for riding rock gardens and technical trails, it was a challenge to ride them cleanly on the Bulls. I really had to fight the weight, and in some cases the power surge, in the technical stuff. It was often difficult to control, which made traversing technical sections even harder than they are on a non-assist bike. I did discover that lowering the assistance level to eco helped me ride some technical sections more cleanly. In the higher-assist modes, the bike would lurch when I turned the cranks, which made picking my way through tricky sections of trail difficult. The lower-power Eco mode offered smoother acceleration, and helped offset the bike’s weight. While I eventually learned how to manage the Bulls on more technical trails, I still found myself stopping and walking more than I would have liked. Eventually, I confined my rides on the Bulls to trails where it performed best: smoother trails that required more energy and endurance than technical ability. On these trails, having the assistance meant I could do more runs on the funnest downhills. The Shimano Di2 electronic shifting on the Bulls is quick and precise and the gear range never had me looking for anything extra. Like other e-bike riders, in some situations I would shift the motor’s assist mode instead of gears, backing down the assist when more finesse was needed, and bumping it back up when the trail opened up. The gear shifter and assist-mode switch use the same smooth and light action Shimano Di2 rotating paddles, which makes for some nice consistency at the controls. I found the integration of the STePS system onto the handlebar worked well and was easy to use once I sorted out its finer details. View 24 Images The digital display shows speed, and your current level of assist Trevor Raab There's a lot to like about the Bulls ECORE Di2 FS27.5+: a powerful motor, sharp shifting, great brakes, confidence-inspiring tires, and smooth suspension. And on the right trails, it is an stirring bike to ride, providing the pure exhilaration of speed that's possible on an e-bike.