Title: Cycling During Coronavirus

Text: This is a rapidly developing situation. For the most up-to-date information, check resources like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) regularly. This story will be updated as new information becomes available. As we move into summer months and vaccinations among Americans begin to increase, we have reason to be hopeful that a return to a pre-pandemic normal is getting closer. However, COVID-19 is still continuing to spread, and cases are even increasing in some parts of the country. The United States has reported more than 30 million cases and more than 500,000 deaths as of April 21. This is also causing continued cancellations of races in the United States. As of April 21, the U.S. has seen over 135 million people receive one dose of the vaccine and over 87 million people fully vaccinated, according to the CDC. But even when we’re fully vaccinated, we still need to be vigilant about masking up when around others not in our own homes or who aren’t fully vaccinated, washing our hands, following state and CDC guidelines for in-person gatherings, avoiding unnecessary travel, and physically distancing in crowds. You might still be wondering what you should do for your own personal health during this time and how this could affect your training. We spoke to David Nieman, Dr.PH., health professor at Appalachian State University and director of the Human Performance Lab at the North Carolina Research Campus, Brian Labus, Ph.D., MPH, assistant professor in the School of Public Health at the University of Nevada Las Vegas, Matt Ferrari Ph.D., associate professor of biology in the Eberly College of Science, and a researcher with the Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics, at Penn State, and and Amy Treakle, M.D., an infectious disease specialist with The Polyclinic in Seattle to help answer cyclists’ most frequently asked questions. → For the latest health and cycling news, join Bicycling All Access! Is it safe to ride outside? Yes, and riding alone is still the best way to reduce your risk and keep others safe. When people congregate together and someone sneezes or coughs, droplets get onto objects that people touch, and then people touch their face, Nieman explains. The best plan for riding right now is to go out, ride solo or with a small group of trusted people, enjoy the outdoors in open areas, and try timing your rides for when you know your route will be less crowded. Getting in 30 to 60 minutes of moderate to brisk activity can help your immune system keep viruses at bay. Be sure you know what’s going on in your area and if there are any restrictions or mandatory self-quarantines. And, if you’re sick or at-risk of spreading the virus, you shouldn’t go out or exercise. “If you do have flu or coronavirus, or have a fever, sick people think wrongly they can ‘exercise the virus out of the system’ or ‘sweat it out,’ that’s a myth. It’s actually the opposite,” Neiman says.  Should I wear a mask out on solo rides? While COVID-19 vaccinations are ramping up, CDC guidelines still recommend “people wear masks in public settings and when around people who don’t live in your household, especially when other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.” (Guidelines are rapidly evolving.) If you’ve been fully vaccinated, the CDC states you can do the following: Visit inside a home or private setting without a mask with other fully vaccinated people of any age. Visit inside a home or private setting without a mask with one household of unvaccinated people who are not at risk for severe illness. Travel domestically without a pre- or post-travel test. Travel domestically without quarantining after travel. Travel internationally without a pre-travel test depending on destination. Travel internationally without quarantining after travel. Even if you’ve been fully vaccinated, the CDC still warns against visiting indoors, without a mask, with people at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19 and attending medium or large gatherings Before those updates, some state governments like those in California and Pennsylvania, began suggesting that everyone wear cloth face coverings when they go out in public for essential activities in order to help prevent those that are asymptomatic from spreading the disease. Many businesses will now require masks to enter.  “Really, what these announcements should mean to athletes, and to everyone, is that the situation we are in is very serious. And that we all need to consider the consequences of our individual actions on the community around us,” Ferrari says. The Pennsylvania guidelines state that masks “should not be worn damp or when wet from spit or mucus,” and in a press conference on April 3, Rachel Levine, M.D., Pennsylvania’s secretary of health, suggested that cloth face coverings may not be necessary when out for solo exercise if you will be in a place you won’t encounter anyone else. There is no advantage to wearing a face covering if you are not going to be near people at all, explains Ferrari. But it’s best to bring one along in case of an emergency such as a crash or you need to stop in to a store for a drink. “Face coverings do two possible things: They contain spread from the ill and prevent inhalation in the healthy,” Ferrari says. “The degree to which they achieve these things is debated, but one thing is not: They are only really effective if used properly. And most people are not trained to use masks properly. Even taking a mask on and off incorrectly can be risky and increase your hand-to-mouth exposure.” Wearing a Buff gaiter or other multi-layer moisture-wicking face covering that covers both your mouth and nose while riding as well as maintaining at least a six-foot distance from others may help cut down on droplets being spread to others due to heavy breathing if you’re in an area where you may encounter others, Nieman says. “The purpose of the mask is not to protect you, but to protect other people from you,” Labus says. However, wearing a cloth face covering is not a substitute for hand washing, physical distancing, or remaining at home when ill. Check your local government recommendations for guidance. (You can find a directory of state health departments here.) Can you ride outside during a shelter-in-place mandate? Though all 50 states began to slowly loosen previous restrictions, as cases rise, residents in certain states or counties may be ordered to shelter in place until further notice, meaning everyone is to stay inside their homes and away from others as much as possible. However, as outlined in the directive first put in place in San Francisco, for example, most shelter-in-place mandates allow for people to go outside and engage in solo outdoor activity, such as running, walking, and hiking, as long as people practice safe social distancing (stay at least six feet apart), do not gather in groups, and do not go out if they are feeling sick. Even during shelter-in-place, If you are an essential worker or need to get outside for exercise, cycling is encouraged, according to a statement from the European Regional Office for the World Health Organization (WHO). As long as you maintain safe social distancing practices, cycling to work can help you avoid unnecessary contact with others, helping to limit the spread of the virus, and also help meet daily recommendations for physical activity. Overall, be sure to check your local public health recommendations and the current health mandates in your area, found on your state and local government website before heading anywhere for a workout. (You can find a directory of state health departments here .) Should you avoid riding in groups? Before meeting up with others for a ride, assess key risk factors such as the level of community spread in your area, if you’ve been exposed to coronavirus and could be at risk for asymptomatically spreading it, and what your training partners have been doing to stay safe. Riding with a training partner or small group of two to three that you trust is likely safe, depending on the area you live in and the precautions you all take. The WHO said that asymptomatic spread is still a concern in a live session. This means you may be able to spread the virus to others without knowing you have it, and others may be able to spread it to you. So, wearing a mask can help cut down on transmission of the virus. USA Cycling has provided resources on resuming events and risk assessment, and suggest that to hold an event, organizers get permission from “all government entities with oversight, as well as follow their guidelines and policies.” And, while research has linked the transmission of COVID-19 to indoor settings more so than outdoor settings, Ashish Jha, M.D., dean of Brown University's School of Public Health, told NPR recently that “if somebody were right next to you and spending, let’s say, 10, 15 minutes running in that little stream of breath that you’re exhaling, there might be a risk.” The same caution should be applied to cyclists as well. Bottom line, if you have any symptoms, including a fever and a cough, or have been exposed to someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you should not be going for a ride, as you risk spreading it to others. How dangerous is spitting while cycling right now? Spreading COVID-19 via spit is possible, according to Treakle. “COVID-19 is spread by respiratory droplets when a person coughs or sneezes, and transmission may occur when these droplets enter the mouths, noses, or eyes of people who are nearby. Spit contains saliva but could also contain sputum from the lungs or drainage from the posterior nasopharynx,” she says. Sorry, snot rocketeers: Treakle says shooting mucus out of your nose isn’t any better. “Having witnessed and participated in races, I think it’s appropriate to note that this would apply to projectile nasal secretions.” And, the spread of the particles being about six feet (current safe social distancing recommendations) is based on people standing near each other and not fast movement or strong air currents. Those could increase or decrease that distance. In a scenario where someone rides into a sneeze or a cough, that would obviously present an increased risk, says Labus. That’s why it’s important to stay in your home if you are feeling sick or have been exposed to someone who is sick, in order to mitigate the risk of spreading the virus to others.  Should I avoid touching things outside?  Though it may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads, according to the CDC. Additionally, recent research has found it’s likely that 90 percent or more of the virus when found on a surface will be inactivated after being exposed to midday sunlight for between 11 and 34 minutes. However, there could be a problem if someone coughs into his or her hand immediately before touching a traffic button, and then you touch the traffic button after them, Nieman explains. In general, the CDC recommends avoiding high-touch surfaces, like elevators and doors, so if possible avoid touching traffic buttons as well. If you must touch the traffic button, do not touch your face after. Even better? Use a sleeve or elbow, and immediately wash your hands after. Can coronavirus be spread through sweat? According to the CDC, transmission of the coronavirus happens between people who are in close contact with one another (about six feet) and through respiratory droplets, produced through a cough or sneeze—not sweat. Am I contagious if I have no symptoms? You are probably contagious right before you begin to show symptoms, but we don’t know for what time period and we don’t know how contagious. This is one thing we don’t fully understand yet about coronavirus. It’s likely that people are contagious 48 to 72 hours before the onset of symptoms, and that symptoms can develop between three and 14 days after exposure, according to Harvard Health. So, it makes sense that you would be more contagious once you are coughing or showing other symptoms, but again, Labus stresses that we don’t fully understand transmission yet. And, the WHO said that asymptomatic spread is still a concern in a live session earlier this summer. This means you may be able to spread the virus to others without knowing you have it, and others may be able to spread it to you. Additionally, it’s still unknown when presymptomatic (the time before you start to show symptoms of the virus) spread can occur, so it’s best to continue social-distancing practices, hand washing, and wearing a mask when you are in situations that social distancing will be difficult. Physical distancing is the answer right now, Nieman says. Experts are still trying to figure out how long the virus lives on objects, and the problem is that it appears to be highly contagious, spread easily by coughing and sneezing, and can be spread by people who don’t think they’re sick. That’s why hand-washing, keeping at least six feet from others while exercising outdoors or running essential errands, and not touching your face are so important. Is my immune system weaker postride or after a hard workout? It depends on the intensity. Short bouts of moderate intensity exercise are good for your immune system, but mental or physical stress—caused by exerting yourself on a long ride, in a race, or after very hard workout—could slightly increase your chances of becoming ill, Labus explains. “I would caution cyclists to avoid long, intense rides or workouts right now until we get through all this and just to kind of keep things under control,” Nieman says. “Don’t overdo it. Be worried more about health than fitness.” However, that doesn’t mean you need to quit riding or exercising altogether. There is a very strong connection between regular exercise and a strong immune system in the first place, so the long-term immune system benefits of exercising far outweigh any short-term concerns, Labus says. Are gyms safe for indoor training? At this time, home workouts are still your best bet for keeping up your fitness routine and helping to ensure your own health and the health of those around you. Most states have loosened restrictions, and gyms are open—with caveats. Many require masks, distancing, smaller classes sizes, reserved time slots, and even a switch to outdoor training. But, before you go, it’s important to weigh the risks and know how the virus is spreading in your community. (You can find a directory of state health departments here .) “If you have to do an indoor workout with others in the gym, make sure you’re masked up with the best filtering, best fitting mask(s) you’ve got,” Matt Ferrari Ph.D., associate professor of biology in the Eberly College of Science, and a researcher with the Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics at Penn State, said previously. And, no matter where you sweat, you should remember to wash your hands regularly, especially after your workout and wipe down all your equipment when you are done using it. If people are using public bike shares, like CitiBike, are there any extra precautions to take? If an ill person has used it right before you, they could leave behind their viruses on the handlebars. But if you wipe it down with antibacterial wipes before you use it, that should protect you against being exposed to many different diseases, Labus says. And companies like CitiBike in New York City has a team of field associates who disinfect high-contact surfaces on bikes daily. According to the CDC, it may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface that has the virus on it, like bike handlebars, and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but as stated previously, this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. Additionally, recent research has found it’s likely that 90 percent or more of the virus when found on a surface will be inactivated after being exposed to midday sunlight for between 11 and 34 minutes. More Ride-Related Coronavirus Stories Free Workout Streaming Services You Can Use at Home Read More Should I Be Wearing a Mask While Riding? Read More How the Coronavirus Is Impacting Pro Cycling Read More A Cyclist’s Guide to Self-Care In These Stressful Times Read More In general, using bike shares should be okay, as long as you wipe the bike down beforehand, and it wouldn’t hurt to have gloves on if that makes you feel safer. And, be sure to wash your hands as soon as you can and avoid touching your face, Nieman says. If my race isn’t canceled, should I go? You might be wondering what to do about the upcoming race you’ve been training for. Take a look at what the race is doing before deciding—and be sure you aren’t feeling sick. You’ll want to figure out things like size of the race, how the start is staggered, and if there are any restrictions on spectators. The CDC recommends that if there is community spread, any event be canceled.  Nieman suggests that the goal right now is to avoid crowds and gatherings of people indoors and outdoors until we know better about how the virus can spread. If my race is canceled but there are other group ride events in its place, should I go? You might be seeing group rides or unofficial races popping up in your community in place of canceled races. But any time people come together, there is a chance for the disease to spread. As counties and states reopen, there are different guidelines in place, so be sure to check your local guidelines before making any decisions. And, check for any local restrictions on gathering size. Plus, CDC guidance states that events that involve large gatherings, especially of people who live in different households and may have traveled from different areas are high risk, especially if it’s not possible to maintain social distancing. In general, be mindful of your interactions with others and take basic steps to protect yourself, like washing your hands, limiting direct contact with others, and not touching your face, you can reduce your risk of many different infections, Labus says. How long can COVID-19 live on clothing? Experts don’t yet know the risk of transmitting the virus from surfaces like clothing, Treakle says. But the WHO reports that coronaviruses can remain on surfaces for a few hours up to several days. If your clothing gets hit by spit, avoid touching the area, and change your clothing as soon as possible, washing your hands afterward. To disinfect clothing, wash it in hot water and use the dryer’s high-heat setting. It is critical to emphasize that maintaining a distance of at least six feet remains vital to slowing the spread of the virus. Also, wearing a cloth face covering is not a substitute for hand washing, physical distancing, or remaining at home when ill. Check your local government recommendations for guidance. (You can find a directory of state health departments here .) Jordan Smith Digital Editor Jordan Smith is a writer and editor with over 5 years of experience reporting on health and fitness news and trends. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io