Title: The 15 Best Fat Bikes You Can Buy Right Now

Text: A fat bike is the perfect tool for extending your riding season if you live where it’s snowy or wet, or where riding a regular-tire mountain bike is futile, not fun, and might damage the trails. Fat bikes are also highly functional for bikepacking, and for riding on sand, because larger tires that are run at low pressure float over soft surfaces, which can smooth out your ride even on a frame without suspension. Recently, fat bike tires are getting wider for more float in extreme conditions, and the bikes are being built lighter with higher performance in mind. Plus, dropper posts are becoming increasingly common on stock builds, making it easier to ride technical terrain, and riders are outfitting these bikes as gear haulers for backcountry trips. And more manufacturers are paying attention to Q Factor (or stance width), which is the distance between the outside of one crank arm to the outside of the opposite crank arm. To create the clearance for wider tires, brands use wider rear hub spacing (up to 197mm—a typical mountain bike has a 148m-wide rear hub). Wider rear hub spacing requires that the crankset be shifted outboard to maintain a reasonable chain angle for proper shifting, which increases the stance width of the cranks. Wider-stance cranks can cause knee or hip pain in some riders. If this is you, look for a fat bike with a narrower bottom bracket shell (less than 100mm). This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. In the market for a fat bike? Here’s what you should be thinking about as you shop around. [Related: All of the Different Types of Bicycles- Explained] Suspension A hardtail with a rigid fork is the most affordable and most common type of fat bike. Because most of these bikes use 4- to 5-inch-wide tires, and because you typically run those tires at low pressure, even a rigid bike can feel like it has suspension as the tires conform to irregularities in the trail. If your riding surface is particularly uneven, rooty, or rocky, or you want to run your tires at a higher pressure for less squirm, consider buying a fat bike with full suspension. A full-suspension setup can help you maneuver better, keep you from feeling beat up after a long ride, and make the ride more enjoyable if you swap fat rims for standard mountain bike rims. However, if you typically ride in extremely cold temperatures, a rigid fork may be more reliable. Wheel Swapping Some fat bikes are designed to accommodate both fat-tire rims and standard 27.5 or 29-inch mountain bike rims. If you don’t want to ride fat tires all year, buying a frame with multiple configuration options lets you have one bike with multiple personalities. In snow or sand, run it with a fat-tire setup. Buy a set of mountain bike wheels with narrower rims and equip them with smaller tires, and you have another option that’s lighter and may be better suited to everyday riding. All fat bikes are built with different hub standards, so you’ll likely have to buy a dedicated second set of wheels if you want to enjoy different options. Wheel Size Most fat bikes use 26-inch wheels, though 27.5-inch builds are not uncommon. Larger wheels are faster rolling and make trail obstacles even easier to push over or through. Fat tire wheels come in many different rim widths, ranging from 60 to 100mm. In general, the wider the tire you want to use, the wider the rim you will want. However, a narrower rim will save weight and make the bike feel livelier. The Maxxis FBF and FBR along with Schwalbe’s Jumbo Jim are popular and available in widths up up to 4.8-inches to make light work of snow and sand. Courtesy of Maxxis Tires The fatter the tire the cushier the ride. Five-inch tires give more float on soft ground than 4-inch models. But fatter tires are heavier, slower, and bouncier on firm ground. For riding on firmer and drier trails, and at higher speeds, a narrower tire is going to provide a more satisfying, and less squirmy, ride. Whichever you choose, consider setting them up tubeless and running low pressures for less chance of flatting. Just ensure the tubeless sealant you choose works at subzero temperatures. If you’ll be riding in icy terrain instead of snowy trails, you’ll want to buy or make a set of studded tires for enhanced grip. Tire Pressure Tire pressure is the best tool you have to fine-tune the performance of your fat bike. With 5-inch-wide tires in the softest conditions, you may be running pressures as low as 2 psi. In firmer or rougher terrain, or for higher speeds, you will want to use more pressure to increase the support the tire offers, and to sharpen the bike’s handling. You may even want to change your tire pressure several times on a single ride as you encounter different conditions. For the best fat-biking experience, you’ll want to invest in a , because differences as little as a half-pound of pressure make a significant difference in the feel and performance of a fat tire. Salsa Beargrease A rigid, carbon 27.5-inch fat bike that can accommodate several tire sizes  Courtesy of Salsa Beargrease Salsa $2,299.00 $1,839.83 (20% off) SHOP NOW The updated and redesigned Beargrease is a stable, dependable snow-riding machine that comes with rack, pannier, and bag mounts for bikepacking and long-haul racing. The Beargrease is equipped with 4-inch tires, but can handle 4.6-, 4.8-, and 5-inch models depending on which fork you choose. Internal sleeved cable routing keeps cables away from the weather and makes maintenance easier. And dropper post routing lets you set this bike up for technical trails. The drivetrain is 1x specific, which will be familiar to many mountain bikers. Pivot LES Fat A full-carbon bike ready for tough terrain and simple singletrack  Courtesy of Pivot LES Fat $3,999.00 SHOP NOW Released in November 2018, Pivot’s new LES Fat makes a lightweight and versatile fat bike even more customizable. The stock bike comes with 27.5- x 3.8-inch Maxxis Minion tires on 80mm rims, although Pivot also offers an equally priced 27.5+ build with 50mm rims and 3-inch Maxxis Chronicle Tires. The frame accepts up to 5-inch-wide tires. Pivot’s Swinger II dropouts, which move up and back simultaneously, compensate for tire size changes (with help from interchangeable lower headset cups) and allow you to shorten and lengthen the chainstays to fit your tire clearance needs and riding style. Manitou’s Mastodon suspension fork is available as a $250 premium spec, and completes come with a Shimano Pro XT/XTR groupset. An oversize down tube and 132mm-wide press-fit bottom bracket shell make the LES Fat laterally stiff with superb power transfer. Riders can fit 1x, 2x, and singlespeed drivetrains. There’s a rear rack mount and mounts for three bottles, making the LES Fat ideal for touring the tundra. Canyon Dude CF 8.0 Carbon frame at an aluminum price  Courtesy of Canyon Dude CF 8.0 canyon $3,499.00 SHOP NOW One of the most affordable carbon fat bikes you can buy, the Dude CF sets you up for winter riding success with a light frame and low gearing—a 28-tooth chainring paired with an 11-42 helps this bike power up hills. The wheels and tires will have you hooting and hollering on the descents. Schwalbe Jumbo Jim 4-inch-wide tires on 26-inch rims are fun and weight conscious—they keep the bike to 26.8 pounds (size M). But you can get more float by swapping in tires up to 4.8 inches wide. A carbon forks helps absorb shock on packed surfaces. And while this bike has entry-level components, the frame is worthy of upgrading as you fall in love with fat-tire riding. Specialized Fatboy Aluminum-frame beast ready for five-inch-wide tires and your next adventure  Courtesy of Specialized Fatboy specialized $19.00 SHOP NOW A poppy aluminum bike with exceptional traction, the Fatboy has a roomy cockpit to thank for its playful performance. A long top tube and short chainstays mean easy climbing and confident descending. Ride it with Specialized’s rigid aluminum fork in the base model, or pay more for a carbon or suspension fork to better absorb trail chatter. The 1x drivetrain makes it less likely you’ll drop a chain, it keeps the handlebar clean, and it helps offset the additional weight of aluminum versus carbon. The Fatboy can handle up to 5-inch-wide tires and has frame mounts for when you want to pack up and disappear into the mountains. Bonus: It’s available in 20- and 24-inch wheel kids’ models.  KHS 4 Season 500 Competitively priced with Shimano components  Courtesy of KHS 4 Season 500 $6,000.00 SHOP NOW The KHS 4 Season 500 has an aluminum frame with reliable name-brand components, including a Shimano Deore 1x drivetrain and Shimano MT2000 hydraulic disc brakes that perform well even when it gets sloppy outside. It sits atop 26-inch wheels with cushy 4.8-inch tires that are great on trails or in the sand or snow and is available in four sizes. It’s not the cheapest or the lightest bike on this list, but it might be the best value due to its quality components and competitive price. Surly Big Fat Dummy  Never want for more cargo capacity again Price: $3,025 (complete) Courtesy of Surly Big Fat Dummy surly SHOP NOW Surly’s Big Fat Dummy is a tractor trailer of a fat bike; It's stable and stiff with exceptional traction that shines when you’re toting groceries, trail tools, an expedition’s worth of gear, or a passenger. The bike has a longer top tube and slacker head tube for stability under weight. The cargo area is built with thinner, lighter tubing than the rest of the bike to keep its weight in check. And the Big Fat Dummy can take tires from 3 to 5.25 inches wide. The bike comes with a deck, rails, bags, and the rail collars (required for hauling humans in the back). Ride it rigid, or add a RockShox Bluto suspension fork. Mongoose Vinson Entry-level option for trying out new terrain  Courtesy of Mongoose Vinson Mongoose SHOP NOW A great bike to get you rolling, the entry-level aluminum Vinson has four-inch-wide tires, a SRAM X4 and Shimano Alivio groupset blend, and mechanical disc brakes with 160mm rotors. The setup gives you plenty of options for hill climbing, and the brakes are trustworthy in winter, with stopping power to keep you on track all year long. The bike is on the heavy side, but it’s a great option for exploring the world of snow or sand without breaking the bank Diamondback El Oso Nino A great introductory fat bike for kids  Courtesy of Diamondback El Oso Nino diamondback $20.00 SHOP NOW A fat bike for kids, this 20-inch wheel cruiser will let your children explore whatever the weather. With monster four-inch-wide tires on a high tensile steel frame, El Oso Nino sails over everything. And the seven-speed Shimano grip shift will help your tyke tackle the hills. The drive train is 1x to keep it simple. Disc brakes with 160mm rotors let your little ripper stay in control when she’s skimming over a beach, powering through puddles, or rolling on her own adventure. Framed Montana 100mm of Rockshox Suspension makes the ride even cushier Price: $4,500 Courtesy of Framed Montana framed SHOP NOW The Montana softens your ride even further by adding suspension to it’s already smooth riding 5-inch tires. It has a Rockshox Bluto fork and Rockshox Monarch RT3 shock that offer 100mm of travel in front and back. Pedaling power comes from a SRAM NX Eagle drivetrain that you could find on any other entry level mountain bike and SRAM Level T hydraulic disc brakes will stop you in a hurry. You have the option to upgrade to build that includes carbon wheels but regardless of the build, the Montana will have you ripping berms and rolling logovers like they’re not even there.  Trek Farley 7 Bigger, not just fatter  Courtesy of Trek Farley 7 equipment $7.00 SHOP NOW Like many fat bikes, Trek’s Farley 7 has 4.8-inch-wide tires. However, those tires are wrapped around 27.5-inch rims, instead of the usual 26-inch rims. Larger diameter means smoother rolling and better traction and since traction is the point of a fat bike, more is always better. Beyond the extra-more-bigger tires, the Farley 7 frame feature sliding dropouts if you want go ultra simple and turn this fat bike into a singlespeed. An 80mm-travel fork helps smooth the icy bumps, and the Farley’s tires and wheels are tubeless ready for less chance of flats while using ultra-low tire pressures. RELATED: Best Trek Bikes 2018 Surly Pugsley A steel beast designed for serious backcountry adventures Price: $1,900 (complete) Courtesy of Salsa Pugsley surly SHOP NOW Introduced in 2003, the Pugsley was one of the first commercially available fat bikes. It has been redesigned since its debut, but maintains its signature wide, long, stable feel that’s prime for backcountry adventures. In the rear, Pugsley’s 142 x 12mm rear dropout can be converted to a 135mm quick-release setup with Surly’s adapter washers. Rear racks now center over the tire—they used to be offset. Surly keeps them away from rider’s feet with longer chainstays, which also increase the bike’s stability. Pugsley’s 4.3-inch-wide tires are versatile and can manage most conditions. The bike fits up to 4.8-inch-wide tires, but bigger tires increases the Q factor and require a different crank. The handlebar is designed for long hauls, with a variety of hand positions for long tours. And for riders not concerned with being minimalist, the bike has mounts on the fork, downtube, seat tube and more. Salsa Blackborow Multiple wheel size and derailleur options  Courtesy of Salsa Blackborow salsa $3,099.00 SHOP NOW The Blackborow is a trail oriented cargo bike that is compatible with 26, 27.5, or 29-inch wheels and tires of up to 4.33 inches with a 26-inch wheel. It has a removable direct-mount front derailleur bracket that gives you the option to run a 1x or 2x drivetrain. It comes with a rear rack included so it’s ready to be loaded up with framepacks or bags for adventure riding or if you want to get out on technical terrain, the frame accommodates internal routing for a dropper post. SRAM GX Eagle comes with a 30t chainring to give you a gear small enough to get the fully loaded frame up and over hills. For trail riding or just moving stuff around, the Blackborow is a good option. Cannondale Fat CAAD 1 Sporty, suspended, and ready to race Price: $3,200  Courtesy of Cannondale FAT CAAD 1 SHOP NOW While many fat bikes are oriented towards slower speed adventures and touring, Cannondale’s Fat CAAD 1 is made to be fast and agile. There are no rack mounts on this frame or cargo cage mounts on the fork. The signature Lefty on the front of this bike has 100mm of travel, and you'll appreciate that the single sided fork saves you a few steps in cold weather, and lets you fix a flat without removing the wheel. Not that you will flat, as this bike is tubeless ready from the factory. A dropper post and four-piston disc brakes give you confidence to ride the Fat CAAD on more than just flat trails, and a SRAM 1x12 drivetrain provides the range you need to mush up the climbs.  Rocky Mountain Blizzard A mountain bikers' fat bike Price: $2,400 Courtesy of Rocky Mountain Blizzard SHOP NOW The aggressive trail bike geometry of the Blizzard paired with a 120mm Rockshox Bluto fork and 4.8-inch Maxxis FBF tires make it ideal for riders who want to ride fast and get rad. Shimano provides the majority of the components that include a predominantly SLX drivetrain with a 26t chainring and 11-46 cassette. The MT400 disc brakes will keep your speed in check on fast descents. It comes with 26-inch wheels but will take up to a 29. If you like the feeling of being on a mountain bike but want fat tires, the Blizzard could be the best of both worlds. Scott Big Jon It’s got the gears Price: $1,425  Courtesy of Scott Big Jon SHOP NOW 1x drivetrains have taken over fat bikes like they’ve taken over all other mountain bike categories. But a 2x drivetrain still has its place: lower lows or higher highs, and smaller jumps. The Big Jon’s Shimano 2x10 drivetrain with a 22x34 low gear will help you get up the climbs, and the smaller steps will help you keep a comfortable cadence until you reach the 36x11 for speeding down hills. This Scott features a nice build for the money highlighted by the 4.8-inch-wide Schwalbe tires on 80mm-wide rims for your single-digit pressure pleasure.  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io