Title: The Best Mountain Bikes You Can Buy Right Now

Text: In the past year, we’ve ridden and evaluated more than 100 of the top mountain bikes—everything from budget hardtails to do-it-all trail models to bomber downhill race bikes. We found entry-level hardtails that are truly capable for less than $900. And excellent full-suspension bikes for less than $1,500, which was unheard of just a few years ago. And of course we discovered near-magical options that cost three and four times that.  Check out five of our top picks below, or scroll deeper for longer reviews of these bikes and other high-ranking options, plus buying advice. Best Women’s Trail 29er Maverick X01 RSV Juliana competitivecyclist.com $7,469.00 Buy Now The 29er of your dreams. Best Value Trail Bike Marin Hawk Hill 1 Marin jensonusa.com $1,499.99 Buy Now An affordable full-suspension bike you can ride anywhere. Most Balanced Pivot Switchblade Pro XT/XTR Pivot competitivecyclist.com $8,099.00 Buy Now A balanced 29er for all parts of the trail Best Budget Hardtail Rocky Mountain Growler 20 Rocky Mountain bikes.com $899.00 Buy Now The best sub-$1,000 mountain bike we’ve ever tested. Best Trail Bike Makeover Fuel EX 9.9 XO1 Trek trekbikes.com $7,499.99 BUY NOW Bigger and badder than its predecessor. courtesy What’s New in Mountain Bike Design With the widespread adoption of dropper posts, better suspension, and geometry that favors longer front ends and tighter rear ends, it’s now possible to shred pretty hard on bikes with less travel. Bikes like the Santa Cruz Tallboy, Evil Following MB, and more recently, Giant Trance 29 have 120mm of rear travel (or less) but the slack angles (and stability) of enduro bikes. And bikes like the Pivot Firebird give you DH travel with crisper pedaling, to create one of the most versatile long-travel bikes we’ve tried. As you’re looking for your next ride, pay as much attention to geometry as you do travel and wheel size. Credit clockwise from left: Trevor Raab; Steve Miller; Jimmy Cavalieri x 2 Key Geometry Considerations If you’ve been following the trends in mountain bikes, no doubt you’ve noticed that “longer” is the most popular word going. Reaches are getting longer, which—along with increasingly slack head tube angles—also lengthens the bike’s front center and wheelbase. This additional length centers the rider between the wheels more, and makes bikes feel more stable, more secure in steep terrain, and smoother overall. Longer isn’t always better, though, and can make a bike feel less stable at slower speeds and harder to maneuver in tight terrain.  Adding reach to short-travel bikes like Giant’s Trance 29 makes them more fun on rowdy trails. Trevor Raab Seat tubes are also much steeper than they’ve been—as steep as 76 degrees or more. This puts most riders in a more favorable seated climbing position. But steeper seat angles also allow frame engineers to move the seat tube out of the way as they try to increase travel, decrease chainstay length, and fit bigger wheels and tires into their frames.  Types of Mountain Bikes Cross-Country These are short-travel bikes made for racing on XC and marathon courses where you need sharp handling and efficient suspension. Many have head-tube angles near 70 degrees, 29-inch wheels and, if they have rear suspension, 90 to 120mm of travel. Trail These are the most popular bikes for good reason, designed to handle almost everything from casual XC trails to rowdy downhills. Expect to see head angles between 65 and 68 degrees, slightly longer wheel bases, and travel between 120 and 150mm. Enduro These are mini-downhill models that are good at climbing. They excel on steep descents, bike parks, and anytime you’re going fast. Head angles range from 62 to 66 degrees and reaches are longer to keep your weight farther behind the front wheel. Downhill Made for downhill races and bike parks, these have ultra-long wheel bases, lots of travel (usually 200mm or more), and dual-crown forks that slow handling but help the bike rip downhill in a straight line and hit massive jumps better than anything else. How We Tested Our team of experienced testers spent many hours and miles using these bikes for their intended purpose, as well as pushing the bikes’ limits outside of their primary intent. We raced them, rode them on our local trails, and hit the bike park. Often we swapped tires and other components to get a better understanding of each bike. After a lot of sweaty, dirty miles, we considered the full picture weighing not just performance and handling, but also, price, comfort, value, and reliability. [Related: The Best Women's Mountain Bikes Right Now] Looking for an e-mountain bike? Check out our top picks here.  —BEST WOMEN’S TRAIL 29—  Juliana Maverick Maverick Juliana $7,469.00 SHOP NOW Slays rowdy trail Slower than an XC bike on the climbs The Maverick—the Santa Cruz Hightower is the same bike with a few parts differences—is a 140/150mm (rear/front) 29er that provides a stable ride with plenty of travel for comfort and control, with a decent turn of uphill performance too. This is an all-purpose mountain bike for riders who prefer the confidence that comes with longer travel but don’t want to resort to an enduro bike. Maverick builds start at $4,299, but if you want to spend less Hightower models start at $2,899. Read Review View Gallery  —MOST-BALANCED TRAIL BIKE— Pivot Switchblade Pro XT/XTR Reynolds Carbon 29 $8,099.00 SHOP NOW Excellent pedaling properties Balanced manners: it climbs and descends well Fits riders down to 5-feet Live Valve Ready The new Pivot Switchblade—142mm rear, 160mm front—is longer and slacker than its previous generation, but it’s also a bit taller and steeper than much of its competition. That gives this bike impressive balance. Stable at speed, but also agile and lively, and it offers top-of-its-class climbing performance too. It’s gravity friendly, but not gravity focused; a big bike that climbs really well, but still descends like a big bike. This is the bike for a rider who loves the climb as much as the shred. Read Review View Gallery  —FASTEST TRAIL BIKE— Spot Ryve 115  Ryve 115 4-Star Build $4,399.00 SHOP NOW The Ryve 115 fills the space between a pure XC race bike, and a trail bike. It is light (our sample weighed 24.5 pounds), shorter travel (115mm rear and 120mm front), and quick handling; Spot’s Living Link suspension offers efficient pedaling performance and a super-lively feel. It’s a super zippy bike that’s a bit more planted on the downhill than a pure race bike. It’s for the rider who wants the efficiency of an XC bike with a bit more capability. Read Review View Gallery —1x10 & HYDRAULIC DISC BRAKES FOR UNDER $1K— KHS Aguila  KHS Aguila $919 khsbicycles.com SHOP NOW 100mm fork 1x10-speed drivetrain Slow handling makes it tough to navigate technical trails The Aguila offers up-to-date geometry, an aluminum frame, and great parts for less than a grand. A 1x10 drivetrain is simple and secure: no front derailleur to deal with, and little chance of a dropped chain when bouncing through rough terrain. It also has Shimano hydraulic disc brakes which offer great power and a smooth feel, and a suspension fork to absorb bumps. It’s a capable off-road bike with stability first handling. This is the bike for someone looking for a capable mountain bike for less than a grand, or a durable commuter.  Read Review View Gallery —BEST TRAIL HARDTAIL— Salsa Timberjack NX Eagle 29 courtesy Timberjack NX Eagle 29 salsa $1,999.00 SHOP NOW Copious mounts and adjustable dropouts 12-speed SRAM NX Eagle drivetrain climbs like a goat  Full suspension bikes are great, but they’re heavier, more expensive, and more maintenance intensive than a bike without rear suspension. Salsa’s Timberjack is a trail bike for riders who prefer the simplicity and durability of a hardtail. With a 130mm fork, dropper post, and 67-degree head angle, the Timberjack is stable and capable,—this bike is ready to get rowdy. It’s also very versatile, with swinger dropouts (420–437mm chainstay length) that let you tune the Timberjack’s handling, or set it up as a singlespeed. It also has clearance plus-size tires up to 3 inches wide (up to 2.6 in 29er) if you prefer traction and float. And if you want to get away, it has mounts for three bottles and a rear rack. This is the bike for the rider who wants trail manners with the low fuss ownership of a hardtail.  Read Review View Gallery  —BEST REDESIGN—  Niner RIP 9 RDO Courtesy of Niner Niner Rip 9 RDO 4-Star 29" Bike 2019 $5,199.99 SHOP NOW Great suspension Balanced, well-rounded ride Shock’s air valve is hard to access Niner’s RIP 9 RDO gets a ground-up overhaul for 2019. The biggest surprise is the 27.5-inch-wheel frame alongside the expected 29er—each version is dedicated to one wheel size. The new RIP has 140mm of rear travel with a 150mm Fox 36 fork on the front and a 10mm reduction in travel at both ends from the outgoing RIP, which helps the new version pedal more efficiently. The result is one of the finest and most well-rounded trail bikes we’ve tested. It’s responsive, yet stable, and it can handle big sends while remaining playful on the smaller stuff. We’ve seen lots of new trail bikes recently. They’re all great in their own way, but this Niner is one of the best we’ve ridden. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 47 IMAGES  ―120MM REDEFINED― Santa Cruz Tallboy CC Courtesy of Santa Cruz Tallboy, $6,999 santa cruz SHOP NOW Rides bigger than a 120mm bike A flip chip adjusts head angle -/+ 0.2 degrees, seat angle -/+ 0.3 degrees Longer reach and wheelbase than previous generation The all-new Tallboy—and its Juliana sibling—gets many of the features that rolled out in the Megatower and Hightower 29ers earlier this year. The new generation four Tallboy adds still more travel—120mm rear, 130mm front—with even longer and slacker geometry, but it still fills the same role in Santa Cruz’s line. As the definition of lightweight trail 29er has evolved, so has the Tallboy. Visually, the biggest change to the Tallboy 4 is the switch to a lower link-driven shock—previous Tallboy models drove the shock off the upper link. This design began with Santa Cruz’s gravity bikes and has trickled down to shorter-travel models ever since. It also lowers the Tallboy’s center of gravity, and makes it look compact with a low-slung stance. The Tallboy has two geometry adjustments. A flip chip in the lower suspension link adjusts head angle +/- 0.2 degrees, seat angle +/- 0.3 degrees, and BB height +/- 3mm. It also has a small effect on shock rate: In the low setting it is a bit more progressive, in the high setting more linear. Put it all together and you get a bike that helps redefine what can be done with just 120mm of travel.  READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 38 IMAGES ―BEST FULL-SUSPENSION PLUS-TIRE BIKE― Cannondale Bad Habit 2 Bad Habit 2 $2,625.00 SHOP NOW Long front center and slack head angle 27.5-inch wheels and 2.8-inch tires Aluminum frame Low bottom bracket means more pedal strikes The Bad Habit is the plus-tire version of Cannondale's best-ever suspension bike, the Habit. Instead of the Habit’s 29er wheels, the Bad Habit gets 27.5 wheels wrapped with 2.8-inch-wide tires for more traction and better flotation, and a more sure-footed and stable feel. The Bad Habit’s geometry is modern, though not as crazy long as some of its competitors, which helps it handle better in slower terrain. The rear suspension offers well-rounded performance, and with an aluminum frame and great parts of the money, this is a plus bike well worth the money. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 38 IMAGES  ―BEST NEW XC BIKE― Trek Supercaliber 9.9 Supercaliber 9.9 XX1 trekbikes.com $9,499.99 Buy Now IsoStrut suspension pedals extremely well XC-focused details: Two bottles and dual remote lockout Lightweight and responsive It'll cost ya Trek's new Supercaliber is the latest attempt to create the ultimate XC race bike by merging the best attributes of a hardtail (stiffness, low weight) and full suspension (traction, comfort, control) frame into one. And based on our rides, it's the closest yet to that best-of-both-worlds machine with 60mm of rear travel. Trek's IsoStrut design places a Fox Float shock into a tube—both ends of that tube are bolted to the underside of the SuperCal's top tube. At the top of the seat stays is a sleeve (Trek calls it a carriage) that slides over the bolted-in tube. Cutouts in the tube allow a cross bolt to pass through the sleeve, the tube, and the rear shock eyelet. Trek says this design eliminates rotation around the shock shaft, and side-loading the shaft so the bike has the stiffness and feel of a hardtail, but with real full suspension for better comfort and control. And based on back to back testing with a hardail, the Supercaliber is everything it was designed to be. ―TONS OF TECH AND IN-FRAME STORAGE― Trek Fuel EX 9.9 courtesy Fuel EX 9.9 XO1 trekbikes.com $7,499.99 Buy Now 140mm Fox 36 GRIP2 fork with 4-way external damping adjustment Mino-Link flip chip adjusts head and seat angles by 0.5 degrees Generous in-frame storage Trek’s Fuel EX was an excellent lightweight trail bike, with notes of XC race in its bouquet. For 2020 the EX effectively underwent a training montage worthy of an ’80s movie and emerged bigger and badder. It is up to 140mm travel in the front (still 130mm in the rear), longer, slacker, stiffer, and comes with bigger tires. The new EX is a trail bike with hints of enduro. Yep, it’s heavier: The top-of-the-line model weighs about 29 pounds on our scale. But it also has a trap door and hidden storage in the down tube. The longer and slacker geometry provides a more centered feel when you’re working the trail with the saddle dropped. The bike’s steering is light, and the bike climbs technical singletrack very well—a nice suspension platform and crisp pedaling manners help. On downhills, it’s very sure-footed and even rides a little bigger than its travel and geometry might suggest. There are a lot of great trail bikes you can buy right now. This EX makes a strong case that it’s one of the very best. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 54 IMAGES ―BEST FOR NAILING THE JUMP LINE― Kona Process 153 CR/DL 29 Courtesy of Kona Process 153 CR/DL 29 kona $3,099.00 SHOP NOW 160mm fork, 153mm frame Equally capable for technical descending and boosting airs Weighs 31 pounds (size Large) It’s tough not to have fun on a 160/153mm trail bike, but if your idea of fun involves jibbing, popping off, and generally challenging the trail’s obstacles with other unnecessary maneuvers, you’ll want this Kona Process. Its RockShox suspension feels buttery from the box, and at 31 pounds, the bike is pleasingly flickable around tight corners. The Process never feels too aggressive; more rip than race, its playful handling encourages you to try that jump line you’ve been too scared to attempt. (There’s plenty of travel for when you case a landing, as we did repeatedly during testing.) I’s also an impressive pedaling platform, and climbing technical cross-country trails is made easier by the suspension’s slow-speed sensitivity to rocks and roots. Our tester says he’s definitely ridden faster-feeling bikes on local trails, but none more versatile and consistently amusing. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 49 IMAGES —BEST BUDGET HARDTAIL— Rocky Mountain Growler 20 Courtesy of Rocky Mountain Growler 20 Rocky Mountain $899.00 SHOP NOW Capable on almost any trail 3-inch tires are more forgiving Not long ago, you had to pay considerably for a mountain bike you could trust on anything but the smoothest trails. And there were almost zero bikes that cost less than a grand you’d want to take on a big, out-there-adventure ride. But the price of entry is falling and this bike is leading the way. The $899 Growler outperforms bikes twice its price. You get an aluminum frame with trail geometry, a 120mm coil-spring fork, 27.5x2.8-inch WTB Ranger tires, hydraulic brakes, and a Shimano 1x9 drivetrain. It’s everything you need at a price you’ll love. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 45 IMAGES —BEST BUDGET FULL SUSPENSION— Marin Hawk Hill Hawk Hill 1 Bike $1,499.99 SHOP NOW The best value full suspension bike you can buy. We loved the Hawk Hill 2 so much we gave it an Editors’ Choice Award in 2018. We couldn’t find a better, more versatile full-suspension bike for the price. This newer (and slightly more expensive) version is even more capable. It gets a one-degree slacker head angle, longer reach, and a dropper post, which is worth every penny of the additional cost. Marin packed this newest model with quality suspension, good parts, and a lively ride. Hit drops, climb mountains, rip downhill; there are few places you can’t go on this bike. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 37 IMAGES —BEST WOMEN’S TRAIL 27.5— Norco Fluid FS2 Fluid FS 2 Women's norco $3,099.00 SHOP NOW Predictable handling Grippy Maxxis 2.6 tires Weighs nearly 33 pounds The Norco Fluid FS 2 is an exciting, responsive, and springy ride that, for the price, is one of the best women’s mountain bikes we’ve tried. It has 120mm of good suspension and feels stable and predictable in the rough stuff. The wide, super-knobby, 2.6-inch wide Maxxis Forekaster tires help here. The aluminum frame has a RockShox Deluxe R shock, and the 130mm-travel RockShox Sektor RL fork gives you a bit more give and bounce in the front to pop up and over bigger rocks and logs. You also get a a nice SRAM NX 1x11 drivetrain, dropper post, and SRAM Level T hydraulic brakes—capable parts that help you build skills or get rowdy. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 36 IMAGES —BEST DOWNHILL— Santa Cruz V10 29 V10 Carbon 29 X01 $7,599.00 SHOP NOW 29er wheels roll over everything A flip chip lets you change chainstay length Carbon wheels cost extra The V10 is Santa Cruz’s race-proven gravity machine, and this latest version is built around 29-inch wheels. It features 215mm of the brand’s VPP suspension technology. A flip chip allows riders to increase chainstay length (and wheelbase) by 10mm, and the new bike gets an updated suspension tune with a lower leverage rate. The carbon XO build comes with Fox’s 49 Factory fork, with a DHX2 Factory SLS coil shock, Maxxis Assegai 29x2.5-inch tires, and a 7-speed SRAM X01 DH drivetrain. It’s long, low, and with those big wheels and refined suspension, pretty damn unstoppable. —BEST ALL-AROUND FATBIKE—  Salsa Beargrease courtesy Beargrease Carbon GX Eagle Salsa $3,899.00 $3,119.83 (20% off) SHOP NOW Lightweight frame Easy handling Dropper post not included The updated and redesigned Beargrease is a stable, dependable snow-riding machine that comes with rack, pannier, and bag mounts for bikepacking and long-haul racing. The Beargrease is equipped with 4-inch tires but can handle 4.6-, 4.8-, and 5-inch models depending on which fork you choose. Internal sleeved cable routing keeps cables away from the weather and makes maintenance easier. And dropper-post routing lets you set this bike up for technical trails. The drivetrain is 1x specific, which will be familiar to many mountain bikers. —BEST BUDGET ENDURO—  Transition Sentinel Sentinel NX Alloy SHOP NOW Price: $2,559 Great geometry Solid value Aluminum version is heavy Transition’s Sentinel 29er is something special: a mid-travel 29er that rips like an enduro bike. The magic comes from Transition’s Speed Balanced geometry, which pairs a slacker head-tube angle with a reduced offset fork to better balance the rider’s weight between the wheels. There’s also the very capable FSR-style four-bar-link suspension mated to a RockShox Deluxe RT shock that delivers 140mm of trail-hugging, jump-boosting performance. The160mm-travel RockShox Yari RC fork gives this bike a decidedly gravity-friendly stance. While carbon-frame versions are available, this budget-friendly aluminum model gives you nearly all the performance at an excellent price. READ FULL REVIEW VIEW 48 IMAGES