Title: Bike Buying Guide for Beginners 2021

Text: Education Images Getty Images If you’re like a lot of people in 2020—stuck at home or just looking for ways to get outdoors with a new type of exercise/transportation—then welcome to the wonderful world of riding bikes. Bicycles are freedom. They can provide exercise, transportation, and meditation all at once. But first, you’ll need to actually get a bike, and there are so. many. choices. But it only seems daunting. Before you head to the bike shop to pick up your new favorite mode of transportation, it’s helpful to know all the little details that will make the bike buying process easier. Some of the main questions you’ll want to ask are: Here’s how to find, and buy, the right bike for you. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Start by figuring out what kind of riding you want to do. There are many kinds of bikes, and knowing what you’ll do with ’em narrows the field considerably. How often will you ride? How far? Will you stay on paved surfaces, or explore natural-surface paths? If you’ll stay on pavement and ride primarily for exercise, a road bike or fitness bike is a good choice. A comfort or cruiser bike is better for short, casual rides with family. If you’ll bike mostly for commuting, a city bike might be best; think about electric pedal-assist models as well. If you want a bike for commuting and fitness, and think you might ride on both pavement and natural-surface trails, a versatile gravel bike is probably the right fit. If you’ll ride entirely off-road, a sturdy mountain bike is the best choice. Sometimes, more than one category of bike might be appropriate. Once you’ve narrowed things down to a couple of styles, you can zero in on specific candidates. Best Bike Roundup Gallery Best Road Bikes Go Fast, and Far Speedy bikes for racing or all-day adventures with friends. Top-Rated Options Best Mountain Bikes Ride Anywhere Rip down any singletrack, gravel road, or dirt path. Top-Rated Options Best E-Bikes Get a Boost Pedal-assist options so you can ride farther with less sweat. Top-Rated Options Best Fitness Bikes Workout Machines Have more fun while improving your fitness and cardio. Top-Rated Options Best City Bikes Own the Street Fast, easy-to-ride options for cruising across town. Top-Rated Options  Frame: The heart of the bike. Made of metal (aluminum most often, steel sometimes, titanium rarely) or carbon fiber on more expensive models. Comes in different sizes to fit riders of different heights. Wheels: Made up of the rubber tire, the rim, and the hub, which connects to the rim via spokes. Suspension: Front and rear hydraulic shocks that smooth out bumps and jolts. The rougher the trail, the more suspension you need. Pricier suspensions are lighter and more adjustable. Drivetrain: Typically 1-30 gears, with up to 12 in the back (cassette or internal-gear hub) and 1-3 in the front (chainrings). Most use a traditional chain, but some city bikes feature belt drives. Brakes: There are three types. Coaster hub brakes are found mostly on beach cruisers. Rim brakes are found on many models, from inexpensive city bikes to high-end road racers. Disc brakes are cable-activated or hydraulic. They’re heavier but stop better, with less force, in all conditions. Contact points: The seat (also called the saddle), handlebar and stem (flat, curved, or drop), and pedals (flat, toe-clips, or clipless). Jetta Productions Getty Images Quality bikes for adults start around $300 to $400. (Many department-store bikes you see for less are cheaply made, poorly assembled, and will be 100 percent un-fun to ride). But a good bike will last, which means you’ll get far more out of it. Here’s what you can expect for your money: $300 to $500: A sturdy metal frame, rigid fork or basic front suspension, a wide-range drivetrain (anywhere from 7-24 speeds), rim brakes or cable-activated disc brakes $500 to $1,000: Better front suspension, hydraulic disc brakes on some models, lighter wheels and tires $1,000 to $2,000: Lighter aluminum or carbon frames, better suspension, hydraulic disc brakes (except on some road bikes), still lighter wheels and tires Best Beginner Bikes Right Now Best Kid's Bike Spawn Yoji 16" spawncycles.com $415.00 Buy Now A totally capable kid’s bike with dirt-worthy tires. Women's Road Bike Liv Avail 1 liv-cycling.com $86.00 Buy Now A fast women’s road bike that’s comfortable enough to ride for hours. Best E-Bike Aventon Pace 350 aventon.com $1,099.00 Buy Now A throttle-equipped bike with electric pedal assistance. Best Mountain Bike Rocky Mountain Growler 20 bikes.com $999.00 Buy Now An affordable frame and components package that rides above it’s price range. Best Hybrid Bike Marin Presidio 1 marinbikes.com $499.00 Buy Now A sturdy commuter to get you where you’re going lickety-split. There are multiple places where you can buy quality bikes these days. Here are the advantages and disadvantages of each: Dealer-direct (online) Pros: Access to brand’s full line; better selection on prior-model year sales Access to brand’s full line; better selection on prior-model year sales Cons: No test ride; no service package or accessory discounts with purchase Online retailer Pros: Often the most aggressive pricing for new bikes; prior-year sales Often the most aggressive pricing for new bikes; prior-year sales Cons: No test ride; returns are a hassle; must assemble yourself Local shop Pros: Brand-authorized; expert help; service plans and discounts Brand-authorized; expert help; service plans and discounts Cons: Often the most expensive; limited selection eBay/Craigslist Pros: Cheapest deals available; can buy new or used Cheapest deals available; can buy new or used Cons: Zero warranty; prone to scams; must hunt for right model/size Westend61 Getty Images How to Shop Research Once you’ve narrowed down your bike to one to three styles, it’s time to do some online research. Start with our best bike series, then head to manufacturer websites for more. Compare features like frame material, gearing, and brakes on different brands in your price range. Check the sizing, which varies from brand to brand, and use the size finder to determine what works for you. And yeah, think about color and graphics. Use the manufacturer’s dealer finder to find a shop in your area that carries the brand. Call ahead and ask if they have the model you want (or something close to it) in the right size. Ask whether you need to schedule a test ride (or if the shop is doing anything different when it comes to testing bikes because of the coronavirus pandemic). You’ll want to test the bike in conditions as close as possible to what you’ll ride in real life. Scout the area around the shop for any bike paths where you can safely sort things out, and find a good hill to test the gearing range and brakes. How to Test Ride Dress the part: Wear whatever you plan to wear when riding. Bring your ID and a credit card even if you don’t plan to buy that day, as you’ll likely need to leave them with the shop during the test. Ask shop staff to set up the bike for you—adjusting the seat, inflating the tires, setting the suspension will give you the proper fit. If you’re unfamiliar with how any parts work, ask for a demonstration. A good test ride takes around 15 to 20 minutes. Get comfortable in the parking lot first, and ask the shop to readjust anything that doesn’t feel right. Then, get out and ride! Shift through all the gears, see how the bike handles around corners. Does the steering feel quick and responsive? Slow and stable? (There’s no wrong answer, just what feels best to you.) Are the gears low enough to let you climb steep hills at a comfortable pace? Do the brakes stop you quickly and safely? Is the bike comfortable to sit on? There’s no wrong answer, just what feels best to you. Most shops aren’t located near trail and aren’t keen on letting riders get test bikes dirty. So if you’re looking for a mountain or gravel bike, demo events are a great bet. Ask the shop if one is scheduled, and check the manufacturer’s website for a calendar of demo tours. Finally, ask if the shop has the model you want in its rental fleet. Many shops will credit the price of one rental toward purchase. Signs of a Good (and Bad) Bike Shop Good bike shops have employees who are friendly and knowledgeable, but will work at your speed. They’ll show you how different parts work. They’ll allow test rides and take the time to properly set up the bike. And they’ll discuss maintenance, any service plan packages they offer, and what accessories you should think about. If an employee is condescending or dismissive, find another to help you. If it happens again, find another shop or go to the manager. Pressure sales tactics are rare, but if they try to sell you something that’s the wrong size or clearly not right for you, leave if they won’t listen to your concerns. Most shops are great, but if something feels out of place don’t be afraid to speak up for yourself.