Title: A Magic-Filled Island Where Life’s Struggles Rage

Text: Xavier is finding it difficult to cook for anyone, much less a pompous politician — he is resistant to being pushed around, his wife has died and he is in a wrestling match with addiction. These might seem like prosaic concerns. Not on Popisho. Xavier’s addiction isn’t to anything so mundane as alcohol or heroin, but instead to moth eating. Across the island, people snatch butterflies out of the air, plop them in their mouths and are bathed in a lovely intoxication that, depending on the variety, can be “like the heat of a good wine” or the “cool swallow of rare ship-bought vodka.” But Xavier is among a handful of islanders who are cursed by a craving for moths, a desire far more addictive, dangerous and shameful than butterflies. Xavier asks, “What would happen, which gods would cry, if he lifted the thing to his mouth, swallowed the moth whole and cursed them all?” And as for Xavier’s dead wife? Everyone knows that her ghost will eventually find her way back to her one love, and whenever Xavier hears squelching footsteps behind him or something dragging along the ground, he is filled with dread, because she will come with “eyelids gone, sockets stretched into her forehead, mouth and nose horribly vestigial.” Xavier isn’t alone, in his magic or his misfortunes. There is also the governor’s son Romanza, who is in love with another man, ostracized by his family and living among the “indigents.” His cors is the ability to know if someone is lying or not, and in his clandestine way, he is trying to speak truth to the islanders. His sister, Sonteine, has her own worries. Her wedding is drawing close and while she loves her future husband, she is afraid of sex and, unusual among the islanders, has yet to discover her “cors.” There is also Anise, a gifted healer who is unable to cure her own infertility. When she learns that her husband is cheating on her, Anise revisits the memories of an old flame. And on Popisho, as is true of most small communities, all lives are intricately entwined, past and present, for both good and bad.