Title: Opinion | The Picassos of the American South

Text: Even in the context of this originality, generosity and beauty, there’s still a huge challenge inherent in any attempt to catalog Mr. Edmondson’s cemetery pieces. It’s a matter of “trying to bridge this enormous gap of both time and racism,” Betsy said. In an era when a Black man in the Jim Crow South could be lynched for nothing more than looking a white woman directly in the eyes, “You just can’t overestimate how dangerous it was for William Edmondson to be talented and to come to the attention of white people.” Especially when the person most responsible for bringing his work to a national audience was a white photographer named Louise Dahl-Wolfe. So many of the great self-taught Southern artists faced the same racism and the same dangers, but continued to make remarkable work even so. I’m thinking of the Gee’s Bend Quilting Collective in Boykin, Ala., whose quilts have been the subject of exhibitions in the most prestigious museums in the country (and are now, for the first time, for sale online). The Times called their quilts in a 2002 show at the Whitney Museum “some of the most miraculous works of modern art America has produced.” I’m thinking of Joe Light, a Memphis painter whose works are in the Tennessee State Museum’s collection — and in the Smithsonian and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, too. And Sam Doyle, who was born into the Gullah community on St. Helena Island off the coast of South Carolina and whose work hangs in the National Gallery of Art, the Smithsonian and the High Museum in Atlanta. And the Rev. Albert Wagner, the son of Arkansas sharecroppers, who was recently featured in a retrospective at the American Visionary Art Museum in Baltimore. “All my life I wanted to paint,” he once said. “I just didn’t know how. God gives directions and you have to follow them.” Perhaps unsurprisingly, this is a common belief among self-taught artists of the rural South, where religious faith underpins so much of daily life. “I was out in the driveway with some old pieces of stone when I heard a voice telling me to pick up my tools and start to work on a tombstone. I looked up in the sky and right there in the noon daylight He hung a tombstone out for me to make,” Mr. Edmondson once said. Whether that kind of confidence comes from a faith in God or a faith in the artist’s own genius, it is a powerful force for remaining true to your own vision, no matter how the world might ignore or misunderstand or revile it. Even more than technique or approach or style, that steadfast commitment to originality can link artists as disparate as a restless modernist from Spain and the son of enslaved people from Nashville. In 1931, the year William Edmondson took up carving tools, Pablo Picasso was completing a painting called “Le Sculpteur,” in which the rounded figures representing the sculptor’s work might have been shaped from Tennessee limestone.