Title: ‘Love Made You Black’: Gazes of Desire and Despair in a New Novel

Text: Azumah Nelson is also a photographer, which is almost expected. Chapters read like images, or movie stills, packed with meaning and shade, lighting and angles directing our attention to the subtle and important places. There’s a memory, shown early in the book, when our narrator tells his grandmother about his hopeful love. In this skillfully rendered flashback to the family compound in Ghana, the narrator’s (and author’s) ancestral home, we’re focused on the grandma’s hands, chopping vegetables, putting down the knife. We feel the sun. The layering of death and love, beginning and end on top of each other, provides a warm cinematic sensation. The shot is perfect. In dialogue that elevates the scene, the narrator tells his dead grandmother about meeting the woman he loves: “I think both of us kinda negate that whole encounter. It was too brief. There was too much going on. It wasn’t the right time.” Putting down her knife, grandma says: “It’s never the right time. … When you sow a seed, it will grow. Somehow, someway, it will grow.” As a general rule in writing workshops, flashbacks don’t work in fiction. They work in film. Something about the reader’s attention, not wanting to upset the flow. Keep it simple, just tell the story. Azumah Nelson upends this convention with beautiful effect. Time is malleable, moving from 2001 to 2017 in two pages as the narrator is hypnotized by the Black M.C.s on MTV in one frame, and watching Skepta onstage from a mosh pit in the next. The order of events doesn’t matter; what matters is the emotional resonance, the close-up, the pause — as real to us as the present. Throughout the narrative runs a stream of Black musical genius — the first time he hears Frank Ocean’s “Blonde,” it brings him to tears; tragedy makes him think of Dizzee Rascal, J Dilla. “The interest in energies and frequencies remains,” Azumah Nelson writes, “and you’ve always wanted to make music, always wanted to know where you, too, could feel just right.” One imagines here a tweed-jacketed creative writing professor chiding that modern cultural references date the material, alienate certain readers. Warning not to make readers look anything up. To this Azumah Nelson’s prose responds by asking, respectfully, but defiantly: What is the difference between J Dilla and Beethoven? Zadie Smith and Proust? Donald Rodney and Michelangelo? The reader is grateful for his asking, this canonizing, even when the references, at times, clutter the flow. But the big flouted convention, the big risk Azumah Nelson takes that doesn’t always quite pay off, is the second-person narration. “You turn to him.” “You open your mouth.” “You push them away.” As I read I found myself mentally replacing those you’s with I’s, and going on my way. At best, the perspective adds nothing to the reading experience; at worst, it detracts. When Azumah Nelson finds his groove, however, we can forgive him all minor annoyances. Whether he’s describing a tense police encounter or lovers intertwined, when he’s great, which is often, his descriptive powers are truly special. “You have always thought if you opened your mouth in open water you would drown,” he writes. “But if you didn’t open your mouth you would suffocate. So here you are, drowning.” Gladly.