Title: Here's every electric vehicle on sale in the US for 2020 and its range

Text: Enlarge Image Porsche It's getting easier, slowly but surely, to plug in to electric motoring. EVs are becoming an increasingly common sight on US roads, along with the charging stations needed to keep 'em juiced up. A few brands seem to dominate the news cycle when it comes to new electric cars, but there are actually well over a dozen fully electric models on sale in the US today. That in mind, here's a list of every electric vehicle on sale in the US, and how far each will go on a single charge, according to the EPA. Editors' note: Our list only includes vehicles that have been certified by the EPA. More EVs might be in the news, but they will not be added to this compilation until they're officially about to go on sale in the US. Audi E-Tron Audi's first purpose-built battery electric road car has been on our radar for a long time, but now it's finally starting to get to dealerships in the US for testing and order books are open. This electric SUV packs a 95 kilowatt-hour battery and a maximum range of 204 miles. The E-Tron's starting price isn't cheap at around $75,000, but you do get a lot of Audi quality for that cash. BMW i3 BMW's i3 has always been a little weird looking and expensive at $44,450, but it does offer a few things that nothing else in the class can match. The biggest of these is its carbon-fiber chassis, which increases stiffness, reduces weight and looks great on a spec sheet. The i3 is definitely meant to be a city car with a relatively short range -- up to 153 miles -- but it is easy to park and a nice place to spend time, so we can't fault it too much. Chevrolet Bolt EV The Bolt EV was the mainstream car industry's first real, practical answer to Tesla's electric juggernauts. It's an affordable little hatchback that doesn't stick out like the i3 and today, it packs plenty of all-electric range at 259 miles -- a nice increase over its initial 236-mile range. With a starting price of just $36,620, the Bolt has positioned itself as the perfect alternative to the impossible-to-spec $35,000 Model 3 from Tesla. Honda Clarity Electric The Honda Clarity Electric is available, it's spacious and those are kind of the best things we can say about it. When you consider its size and the competition, a range of just 89 miles is unacceptable. Add in that you can't buy the car outright, only lease it, and it compounds things further. Still, it's a Honda and all the stuff that Honda does well -- like build quality -- is up there, so that counts for something. Hyundai Ioniq Electric Hyundai is getting way more into the electric vehicle game, but the car that started it out for them was the Ioniq Electric, and you can still get it. It's basic in almost every sense of the word, but its range got a nice increase for 2020, to 170 miles. This bad boy lists for just a hair over $30K and that makes it a decent deal. Hyundai Kona Electric The Kona Electric is one of the most exciting new EVs you can buy right now. It has excellent range, weird-but-fun styling, tons of standard equipment and all the other killer Hyundai stuff, including a great warranty. The Kona EV is a lot quicker and more fun to drive than you'd expect, while its range of 258 miles puts it among the upper-echelon of modern battery-electrics. With a price tag starting at $36,990, you're getting a lot for your money. Jaguar I-Pace Jaguar was one of the last companies we'd have expected to release a purely electric SUV. But it did, and the decision ended up working in its favor. The I-Pace looks like nothing else, drives like a Jag and offers a real alternative to the Tesla Model X. The I-Pace is a practical beast too, having been designed from the ground up to be an EV, it has plenty of space for people and things and a substantial range of 234 miles. Kia Niro EV Kia's Niro EV is Kia's best effort yet at making a fully battery-electric SUV that offers good range -- 239 miles -- for not a lot of money ($38,500 to start), and it surprised us when we drove it for the first time. It's more fun than its looks or specs would suggest and it's packed with a deep roster of standard features that make modern Kias so hard to beat for value. Mini Cooper SE You may not remember this, but Mini was actually an early pioneer of modern EVs. Back in 2009, the automaker underwent a large-scale test of electric Mini E hatchbacks, building hundreds and leasing them to hand-picked consumers and utility companies. After a couple of years, it gave up on the tech, and it's taken until now for the brand to offer a BEV for sale. The 2020 Mini Cooper SE Electric hits dealers in March and promises to be one of the most-affordable EVs on the market. Priced from $29,900 plus delivery, when you factor in the full federal tax credit and potential state and local incentives, you could own one for well under $20,000. There's a catch, of course -- limited range. The Mini Electric is only estimated at 110 miles of range, about as short an e-leash as you'll find today. Not a compliance car sold only in California-emissions markets, Mini says the SE is a 50-state model. Nissan Leaf Ah yes, the granddaddy of all affordable electric cars. There is a reason that the Leaf is the world's bestselling EV by a factor of a zillion. And if you've spent time in one recently, you'll know it's easy to see why that is. The Leaf is a simple, well-built, affordable electric car that offers reasonable range -- 150 miles -- and still feels a little like the future. Nissan Leaf Plus The Leaf Plus is Nissan's answer to cars like the Tesla Model 3, the Kona Electric and the Bolt. It has the Leaf line's best range yet at 226 miles, and while it's not as cheap as the standard leaf, it offers you more for your money. More what? Power and torque mostly. Sure some of its tech is a little old, but that means it's well proven at this point. 2020 Porsche Taycan is a Tesla Model S fighter with up to 750 horsepower See all photos +37 More Porsche Taycan Porsche's first battery-electric car arrives to take on the Tesla Model S. It initially went on sale in Turbo and Turbo S forms, packing 670 and 750 horsepower, respectively. The Turbo starts at $150,900 while the more powerful S comes in at $185,000. The 4S is the least-expensive model, at $103,800. The EPA-estimated ranges vary depending on model, and in our independent testing, we found the Turbo's EPA numbers to be a bit conservative. Porsche Taycan 4S: 203 miles Porsche Taycan Turbo: 201 miles Porsche Taycan Turbo S: 192 miles Tesla Model 3 This is the EV to which all other midpriced electric vehicles have to answer. The Model 3 is just that good. It's comfortable, fun to drive, has tons of cargo space and one of the best ranges in its class. In fact, the Tesla Model 3 offers a number of range options depending on the model: Tesla Model 3 Standard Range: 220 miles Tesla Model 3 Standard Range Plus: 250 miles Tesla Model 3 Mid Range: 264 miles Tesla Model 3 Long Range AWD: 322 miles Tesla Model 3 Long Range Performance AWD: 322 miles Tesla Model 3 Long Range: 330 miles Tesla Model S The Model S has been around in more or less the same form since 2012. It's gotten several updates to its hardware, its styling and its performance but it is still one of the oldest vehicles here. That said, it's also the reigning champ of all-electric range. Thanks to a recent overhaul, the S 100D can eke out 373 miles on a single charge. Unfortunately, it's also $79,990 before adding things like different wheels, paint or Tesla's dubiously named Full Self-Driving feature. Like the Model 3, here's a breakdown: Tesla Model S Standard Range: 287 miles Tesla Model S Performance: 348 miles Tesla Model S Long Range: 373 miles Tesla Model X The Tesla Model X is like the Model S in that it's fast and expensive, but it's also bigger, roomier and has the craziest doors to be found on a production car this side of the Lamborghini Aventador. Thanks to a similar update to the Model S, the X 100D now offers 328 miles of range on a single charge. That's not bad for something so big. Here's how the rest of the model line shakes out: Tesla Model X Standard Range: 258 miles Tesla Model X Performance: 305 miles Tesla Model X Long Range: 328 miles Tesla Model Y Think of the Tesla Model Y as the larger, frumpier version of the Model 3. Smaller than the Model X, the Model Y still offers seating for seven (somehow) and the same powerful electric powertrain. According to the EPA, it'll do an impressive 315 miles on a full charge, no matter if you choose the Long Range or Performance model. Volkswagen E-Golf Volkswagen has been teasing us with electric ID concepts for years now, and while some of those are supposed to make it to production soon, the only EV you can currently get from VW is the humble E-Golf. The Mk VII Golf is already a pretty great platform, to begin with, and while the E-Golf's range isn't stellar at just 123 miles, it's a pleasant enough car to live with and drive. Plus, with a starting price of $31,895, it's actually not that bad of a deal. Originally published Apr. 30. Update, Sept. 4: Adds Porsche Taycan. Update, Sept. 18: Updates for 2020 model year. Update, Dec. 28: Adds Porsche Taycan Turbo. Update, Jan. 15: Adds Porsche Taycan Turbo S, updates Hyundai Ioniq. Update, Feb. 21: Adds Tesla Model Y. Update, April 17: Adds Porsche Taycan 4S.