Title: Peloton and Adidas Team Up for New Clothing Collection

Text: Peloton instructor Ally Love in a look from the new Peloton and Adidas collection designed in collaboration with fellow instructors Cody Rigsby and Robin Arzón. Photography courtesy of Peloton. Peloton and Adidas Team Up for a New Clothing Collection Peloton fan favourite instructor Cody Rigsby tells us all about the inclusive line and finding vulnerability through his classes. Ask any of Peloton’s enthusiastic followers and they’ll tell you that the fitness brand is much more than just intense spin classes, it’s a lifestyle. For Cody Rigsby — the brand’s director of cycling and a fan favourite instructor known for his fun, nostalgia-fuelled classes — it’s about a community of people being their most authentic selves. “When we’re not conforming to ‘normal,’ we’re taking chances, we’re taking risks. That’s inherent in the Peloton community,” Rigsby, who is also a global ambassador for Adidas, tells FASHION over Zoom. It’s that exact ethos Rigsby and two of his fellow Peloton leaders, Robin Arzón and Ally Love, brought to the table for the brand’s new partnership with Adidas, which is launching with a spring/summer collection of apparel that was designed in collaboration with the instructors. “You’re going to find a piece in the line that will let you express yourself and will feel right for you — but it could also be something you never would have added to your wardrobe before,” Rigsby says. “Personally, there’s a pair of pink and orange women’s bike shorts that I want to try, and I’m going to be unapologetic about it.” The vibrant, ’90s-inspired, 11-piece collection includes a selection of performance gear like tanks, sports bras, hoodies and joggers in a range of sizes from XS to 2X. Starting at $45, the line drops online in select stores and online on both the Adidas and Peloton sites on March 25. The launch also includes a series of on-demand classes the debut on March 18, as well as a live class to celebrate on the 25th. We caught up Rigsby to discuss the collection, the process of finding his voice as a Peloton instructor and what’s on his current class playlist. What makes this new collab with Adidas unique to Peloton? It’s two really innovative companies that intersect with athletics and fashion, so we’re a perfect match. When we went into designing it, we wanted to make pieces that would feel comfortable on anyone you know; pieces that you could style for a really diverse group of people. The line is size-inclusive, and also includes men’s, women’s and unisex styles. Was everyone involved committed to making the line as inclusive as possible? Our Peloton members are super diverse — whether it’s the way they look, their upbringing, where they are [geographically]. We wanted people to feel comfortable in all of the styles. I specifically was like, ‘I want something super bright for the men’s collection, but anybody could wear this.’ I want people to think outside of their normal box and get comfortable doing new and different things. How do you approach getting dressed when you’re leading a class? Being a perfect Gemini, it’s different every day. When we do training rides, I always go for a more athletic style and wear something that allows me to focus on the training. In this collection, I’d probably grab the men’s black tights because they’re sleek and I know I’m going to be able to move in them. I’d pair them with the black three-stripe tank, which I really love because it’s form-fitting so I know that I can focus on the workout and being the best athlete possible. But then if I’m doing a ’90s ride or a pop ride, that’s when I want to bring levity and high energy to the class. For those classes, I’d probably grab the pink shirt and pair it with the composition notebook patterned shorts and just really have fun with it. Instructor Cody Rigsby in a look from the new Peloton and Adidas collection. Photography courtesy of Peloton. Speaking of ’90s and pop music, your classes are known for leaning into nostalgia and great playlists. How did you find your voice and style as a Peloton instructor? I’m coming up on seven years of Peloton, which is insane. Time flies. I’ll admit that I had more time than some of the newer instructors to find my voice. I had a lot more time to make mistakes and do things wrong for a while. Once I allowed myself to discover who I am — because, I think, when I first started, I wasn’t faking it, but I wasn’t sure of who I was exactly — I was able to grow into myself and style. And that’s being opinionated, fun, and really allowing myself to be who I am instead of trying to project something I wanted to be. I’ve held onto my authenticity and have told my story without being scared. And that’s what I want people to take away from my class: a sense of fearlessness to discover who they are and then to be that person without any apologies. For people who aren’t as familiar with Peloton and only know it as an exercise class, how would you explain your goal of imparting that fearlessness in your classes? The special sauce of the Peloton community is vulnerability and storytelling. When we think of vulnerability, we think it has to be deep and scary, but by just being yourself, you’re being vulnerable. When you tell certain stories about yourself unedited, that truth makes it authentic. And that vulnerability allows me to show my weaknesses and my strengths. When you share that with other people, they’re inspired by that, so they in turn find that fearlessness to be vulnerable within themselves and share who they are through movement, through the clothes they wear and the things that they do. What’s been the most surprising thing to come out of your seven-year long Peloton journey? It has pushed me to grow up a lot. If you’ve taken my ride, you know that I’m the biggest kid at heart — I’ll never let that go. But I’ve had to grow up and figure out who I am. And the thing that’s affected me the most is getting to hear other people’s stories. I talk about my own vulnerability and sharing on my bike, but that leads to members sharing their own vulnerable stories on Instagram with me, or in person when we used to have in-person classes. Meeting members and hearing their reasons why — why they get on a bike, why they do our classes — and finding out I’ve been an influential part of their self-discovery has been the most special thing. What music is on your current playlist for classes? Last week, I did a Little Mix bike bootcamp, and that was so much fun. I’m such a fan of Little Mix, the U.K. girl group, and I was super excited about it. It was one of my favourite classes. I’m very much into British music, so even though Little Mix is gaining momentum in the States, I was excited to share that with my audience. I love seeing people be like, “Oh my god, I never listened to them before but now I can’t stop.” And if you’ve taken my class, you know how much I love Dua Lipa. I’m obsessed. It’s fun to share things that I’m excited about and see people react to them and also fall in love with them. Friends you can get new music recommendations from are special friends, so if I can be that person to certain people, I feel very accomplished.