Title: Xbox Series X price, bundles, and deals - get the latest updates on stock

Text: If you're hunting down the lowest Xbox Series X price and the best Xbox Series X deals, you've come to the right place. Our team of bargain-hunters are always on the prowl for stock, and this page is regularly updated with the latest info as a result. To get things started, check out these retailer quick links below. If anyone's going to get new stock in the next few days, it'll be them. Let's talk specifics. Walmart and Target usually offer Xbox Series X deals on Thursday, while Best Buy sticks to Friday (unfortunately, Amazon drops seem random so are harder to predict). Don't expect a lower Xbox Series X price with any of them, though. The console is selling exceptionally well, so discounts aren't going to happen for the foreseeable future. As for the UK, there's been a consistent stream of Xbox Series X deals throughout the week at Amazon - often before 9am GMT - and Game. The latter is pretty good for bundle offers, and those tend to sell out slower than the console by itself. Sadly, even those bundles are few in number. Stock has been frustratingly low across the globe, and the console is snapped up almost instantly when it does go on sale. Considering the unexpectedly reasonable Xbox Series X price ($499.99 in the US or £449.99 in the UK), that shouldn't come as a surprise. But this scarcity doesn't mean you should give up hope. Xbox Series X stock does appear every now and then if you know where to look, and we're here to help with that. The latest Xbox Series X deals Xbox Series X deals - US Amazon (could drop at any time, usually from 7pm EST) When it comes to Amazon, there doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to stock drops - Xbox Series X deals appear at unexpected times. We've seen them on weekdays from around 7pm EST in the past, but that's about as accurate as we can be. With that in mind, it's worth checking in regularly. View Deal Best Buy (Fridays, 12pm - 3pm EST) As one of the biggest retailers in the country, Best Buy is a good bet when it comes to Xbox Series X deals. It tends to get consoles on Fridays between 12pm - 3pm EST (but sometimes Mondays as well), making it a real contender.View Deal Walmart (Thursdays, from 2:30pm EST) Walmart is a consistent one for Xbox Series X deals; it tends to drop stock on Thursdays, from 2:30pm - 3pm EST. That means you should sign in early and be ready to go ahead of time to avoid any holdups. View Deal Target (Thursdays, from 9am EST) Target has been hard to predict when it comes to Xbox Series X deals; the retailer doesn't always get a drop. However, the console usually appears from around 9am EST when it is in stock. That's a good time to start looking. View Deal Microsoft (unknown, could be any time) If in doubt, go straight to the source. In a turn of events that will surprise no-one, Microsoft has been one of the most consistent when it comes to Xbox Series X deals. However, it's also unpredictable so your best bet is to keep checking.View Deal Xbox Series X deals - UK Amazon (could drop at any time before 9am GMT) Amazon is always a solid bet when it comes to Xbox Series X deals, but it's hard to predict. Fortunately, we do have a rough timescale for you - these offers consistently drop before 9am GMT, so check first thing in the morning. View Deal Microsoft (could drop at any time) If you assumed that Microsoft would be a good place to look for Xbox Series X deals, you'd be right. Annoyingly, it's just as unpredictable as Amazon. We'd recommend visiting the site every now and then to see if you get lucky.  View Deal Xbox Series X deals - accessories and games (Image credit: Microsoft) The Xbox Series X price might make you wince, but the console's got one major advantage you may not have considered - backward compatibility for accessories and games. Think about it. After paying for a console, you'd normally have to factor in launch games purpose-built to sell the system along with new controllers, subscriptions, and whatever extras the publishers are pushing. But with any Xbox Series X deals, all of your existing Xbox One peripherals and services are forwards compatible. That means your achievements, progression, controllers, memberships, and Xbox One headsets move forward to Series X. Many of the top audio-brands have confirmed which headsets will work on the new console, for example, and more than a few have become the best Xbox Series X headsets as a result. The console will also let you play existing games via both the optical disc drive and digital download, not to mention Game Pass. That allows you to save a couple of hundred dollars right off the bat - you don't need to buy specific 'next-gen' versions of a game, as they're usually the same. We've gathered the best deals on games and accessories below. Check them out if you want a discount! How to save money on Xbox Series X (Image credit: Microsoft) Alright, so the Xbox Series X price is still a hefty chunk of cash to spend. But you don't necessarily have to pay it off in one go. Enter Microsoft's fancy Xbox All Access system. This is a payment plan, and it allows you to get an Xbox Series X for a monthly fee spread over two years. It'll set you back $34.99 per month in the US, £28.99p/m in the UK, and $46p/m in Australia. Interestingly, Xbox All Access doesn't just get you the console. It also offers 24 months of Game Pass Ultimate as well. Because Game Pass is a bit like Netflix for gaming (with well over 100 games and counting), that's a solid deal. Particularly due to the fact that new Xbox exclusive games like Halo will appear on Game Pass for free on the day of release. Thanks to this, Xbox All Access might be one of the more sensible options when it comes to buying an Xbox Series X. Indeed, it saves you money in the long run. Sure, you're only getting a small amount knocked off the overall price, but it's still cheaper than buying the console and two years of Game Pass separately. However, be advised that you won't find Xbox All Access in many stores besides Microsoft. GameStop fills that role in the US, and Game or Smyths have the honor in the UK. What's the difference between Series X and Series S? Should you pick up an Xbox Series X or a Series S? And just what is the difference, anyway? As we explained in our Xbox Series X vs Xbox Series S feature, it's a lot simpler than it seems. In a nutshell, both run the same next-gen games... but the Series S can't display them in super-sharp 4K resolution. What's more, it doesn't have a disc drive. Why? It's all about accessibility. The Xbox Series S is designed as an entry-level console or for those on a budget, and it makes next-gen accessible for as many people as possible. That's why Microsoft has thrown some features overboard for this one. The tech dedicated to making 4K possible isn't needed, so ditching that extra power lowers the overall cost. Similarly, removing a disc drive is likely to shunt the price down even further. All the same, we wouldn't say the Series S is a 'better' choice. Although Xbox Series X deals are more expensive, it's arguably the full next-gen experience. If you have a 4K TV, games will look better with the Series X as well. There are no two ways about it. They may load faster and run slightly better, too. In addition, the lack of a Series S disc drive isn't ideal. Digital games are almost always more expensive than physical ones, so it's actually not as good value for money as it seems. Especially because the console's internal storage is only 500GB. In fact, it's more like 350GB once you remove operating system demands. Considering how games like Call of Duty Warzone take up almost 200GB by themselves, it necessitates splashing out on an extra hard drive. That, or constantly deleting your old games to make room for new ones. (Image credit: Future) Plus, the Series X is a superior choice if you want to future-proof yourself. Namely, its specs are to die for. Much like the 4K-ready Xbox One X before it, the Series X features eight Zen 2 CPU cores at 3.8GHz, a mighty 12 teraFLOPS of graphical power, a 1TB NVMe SSD, and 16GB of DDR6 RAM. Wondering what all that means? For starters, it'll result in a smoother and more detailed experience than you've ever seen on a console before. Additionally, your games will have shockingly fast loading times. We're talking seconds instead of minutes, here. That's a huge deal. What's more, the AMD Zen 2 computer processing unit and Navi chipset are apparently 10% better than the already-powerful GeForce RTX 2070 graphics card. This will allow the new Xbox to pull off real-time ray tracing, a more realistic lighting system that's usually the preserve of high-end PCs. This is a machine that natively supports up to 8K resolution and 120 frames-per-second, too. According to Microsoft, the Series X's blindingly fast RAM will "usher in resolution and framerates we've never seen before." Honestly, we're lucky that the Xbox Series X price isn't higher with such an impressive spec sheet - its tech puts the Series X on par with the very best gaming PCs. If you want to check out what you'll be playing next-gen, head on over to our guide to upcoming Xbox Series X games. Or if you want to keep things current-gen, we also have a list of upcoming Xbox One games.