Title: 50 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts You Can Buy Online 2021

Text: Hello, my fellow citizens of Procrastination Nation. If you're a new resident of this (fictional) country, then you know all too well that Mother’s Day is on Sunday, May 9, 2021. And you also know all too well that you. are. not. prepared! But don't freak out just yet—and don’t go order the same flower arrangement you bought her last year and call it a job well done either. (Your mom will be able to tell, trust.) There are still plenty of thoughtful and unique Mother's Day gift options available online that will arrive in record time. After all, what is the internet good for if not for eleventh hour shopping? Idk, but let's be real: No one has time to scroll through website after website to find the perfect gift to wow Mom on her special day. You're looking for a last-minute gift for a reason—and, uh, not a *great* one. That’s why I've done the hard work for you and rounded up some of the best Mother’s Day gifts out there, from digital gift cards and subscription boxes (no waiting required!) to unique and cute home goods that ship fast, with plenty of time to spare. Trust me, there’s something here for every type of mom. Does she love trying new wines? Give her the gift that keeps on giving: a Winc subscription box gift card. Or maybe she’s the sentimental type—cue this sweet heart-shaped necklace engraved with "Mom" from Kate Spade New York. (Word to the wise shopper: Amazon Prime members can snag two-day shipping on pretty much all of Shopbop's goodies, too.) So, take a deep breath and start shopping. Here are the 50 best presents that will totally score you major points this Mother’s Day. 1. Sips by Tea Subscription Digital Gift Card Sips by Tea Subscription Gift Card Sips by sipsby.com $45.00 SHOP NOW Maybe Mom enjoys a cuppa tea over a glass of wine? If so, she'll love discovering new premium teas from beloved brands around the world each month with a Sips by subscription. You can choose between gift cards good for three, six, or 12 months. 2. Winc Subscription Digital Gift Card Winc Gift Card Winc winc.com SHOP NOW The best thing about a gift card from Winc? It puts Mom in total control of a gift she's guaranteed to love. All she has to do is take the wine subscription service's quiz to find the perfect vino to celebrate herself this spring and summer, and—voila!—it's at her door. The second best thing? You can get it right up until Mother's Day, and she'll never know you procrastinated. 3. FabFitFun Box Subscription  Fab Fit Fun Box Subscription Gift Card Fab Fit Fun fabfitfun.com SHOP NOW Not sure what to get Mom this Mother's Day? Leave it to the expert curators at Fab Fit Fun and give her the best of everything, from full-sized beauty products to accessories to at-home fitness tools. Plus, you don't have to spend more than $25. 4. Urthbox Healthy Snack Subscription Urthbox Snack Box Subscription urthbox.com SHOP NOW Remember all those healthy meals Mom cooked up for you over the years? Well, one small way to pay that back is making sure she's well-stocked with tons of healthy snacks delivered right to her door each month. This subscription box will do that just and can be customized to her eating habits with gluten-free and vegan options. A three-month gift costs $89.97. 5. Kate Spade New York Mom Knows Best Pave Heart Pendant Necklace Mom Knows Best Pave Heart Pendant Necklace Kate Spade New York shopbop.com $34.00 SHOP NOW Well, she does—doesn't she? Score those brownie points with this double-heart pendant necklace with 'Mom' etched into it. 6. ASUTRA Ultimate Relaxation Dead Sea Bath Salts Ultimate Relaxation Dead Sea Bath Salts ASUTRA amazon.com $24.99 SHOP NOW The one thing Mom really wants on her special day? Some R & R. Made with a blend of organic lavender, cedarwood, chamomile, and marjoram essential oils, these pure dead sea salts deliver exactly that—and in record time. Just add water. 7. Athleta Gift Card Athleta Gift Card Athleta athleta.gap.com SHOP NOW Some things, like a new pair of leggings, you just want to pick out for yourself. So if your mom's a fitness fashionista, she'll love finding a new 'fit, courtesy of an Athleta digital gift card. 8. AAKS Sinsi Dot Bag Sinsi Dot Bag AAKS shopbop.com $99.00 SHOP NOW Um, how cute is this li'l woven crossbody bag?! Expect Mom to take it with her everywhere she goes all summer long—and look absolutely fabulous while she's at it. 9. Bolden GLOW Hydrating Mask GLOW Hydrating Mask BOLDEN amazon.com $19.50 SHOP NOW Maybe you can't book a full-blown spa day on short notice, but you can bring the spa to Mama with this skincare mask. Containing hyaluronic acid and powerful antioxidants like Centella asiatica extract, it hydrates and plumps the skin while preventing aging. 10. TRUFFLIN Sriracha & Ranch VIP Set Gourmet Truffle Sriracha & Ranch VIP Set Trufflin amazon.com $54.99 SHOP NOW If your mom's a foodie, then chances are she knows how black truffle oil can elevate a dish. Give her the VIP treatment (she deserves it!) with this set of truffle sriracha hot sauce and truffle ranch. She'll feel like she's at a five-star restaurant for every meal. 11. POWERHANDZ PowerPack Fitness Bundle PowerPack 3-Piece Fitness Bundle POWERHANDZ amazon.com $17.99 SHOP NOW Mom's been crushing her at-home workouts, but this set of mini bands and sliders will help her take those #fitnessgoals to the next level. 12. Lola Ade 14k Gold Filled Open Heart Earrings 14k Gold Filled Open Heart Stud Earrings Lola Ade amazon.com $30.99 SHOP NOW These earrings might be dainty enough for everyday wear, but their heart shape and twisted design makes them perfect for special occasions, too. 13. Phenomenal Woman T-Shirt Phenomenal Woman T-Shirt Phenomenal shopbop.com $35.00 SHOP NOW She'll be so flattered by the sentiment, she'll have no idea you waited until the last second! 14. REVLON One Step Hair Dryer And Volumizer Hot Air Brush One Step Hair Dryer And Volumizer Hot Air Brush REVLON amazon.com $59.99 $49.99 (17% off) SHOP NOW If your mom has had the same hair dryer for the last decade, it's time for an upgrade. This all-in-one hot air brush will give her the perfect blowout in record time. 15. Back to the Roots Kitchen Garden Complete Herb Kit Kitchen Garden Complete Herb Kit Back to the Roots amazon.com $19.98 SHOP NOW Got a mom who loves cooking with fresh herbs—or even just adding them to her tea? Gift her this kit to grow organic basil, mint, and cilantro at home all year 'round. Best part: You get to reap the yummy bennies whenever you visit. 16. Moonlight Short Pajamas Moonlight Short Pajamas NORDSTROM LINGERIE nordstrom.com $49.00 SHOP NOW PJs your mom will actually want to be seen in? They said it couldn't be done, but this pair prove it has. Coming in both black and navy, these matching pajamas are sure to make her Sunday mornings oh-so-stylish. 17. Prisma Jewelry Tray Prisma Jewelry Tray Umbra amazon.com $18.22 SHOP NOW If your mom's already well-stocked on the accessory front, then she'll love this statement-making jewelry tray. It's sleek and functional, without being boring—exactly what Mama wants this year (even if she doesn't know it.) 18. Beach Cottage Candle Beach Cottage Scented Candle Homesick amazon.com $34.00 $29.85 (12% off) SHOP NOW If Mom's happy place is the beach, transport her there anytime with this candle featuring notes of bergamot, sandalwood, and beach air. Ahhhhh. 19. Atelier Cologne Perfume Stories Discovery Set Perfume Stories Mini Set Atelier Cologne sephora.com $24.00 SHOP NOW Atelier Cologne is known for its best-selling fragrances, and this Sephora-exclusive gift set will help Mom discover her fave as she goes on seven different scent adventures. She can jet off on a tropical getaway with Pacific Lime and take in the crisp Mediterranean breeze with Musc Imperial—all without leaving the comfort of home.  20. Tizo Decorative Vase Tizo Decorative Vase Shopbop @Home shopbop.com $45.46 SHOP NOW Flowers for Mother's Day? Been there, gifted that. And besides, she's not a regular mom, she's a cool mom. So, doesn't she deserve a vase to match? Let your sibs send the expected florals—and get the credit for taking it to the next level. 21. Soko Teardrop Huggie Stud Earrings Teardrop Huggie Stud Earrings Soko shopbop.com $58.00 SHOP NOW Simple enough to become part of Mom's everyday wardrobe, yet stylish enough to take her ensemble to the next level, these huggie earrings are the perfect accessory to add to her collection. 22. Le Specs Armada Sunglasses Armada Sunglasses Le Specs shopbop.com $59.00 SHOP NOW Summer is right around the corner, so make sure Mom's set in style with these sunnies. 23. Marble Pattern Coasters Marble Pattern Coasters Lahome amazon.com $18.99 SHOP NOW Every mom could use some new coasters, right? This chic set of four aren't just functional, but bound to impress her book club. 24. Sanuk Yoga Gora Gora Sandals Yoga Gora Gora Sandals Sanuk amazon.com $24.99 SHOP NOW Comfort meets effortless style in these slip-on sandals with a footbed made from real yoga mat. 25. Slip Pure Silk Pillowcase Silk Queen Pillowcase SLIP amazon.com $89.00 SHOP NOW Help Mom make her beauty rest really count with this pure silk pillowcase, designed to keep her hair damage-free and skin extra smooth.  26. Isabel Marant Casablanca Earrings Casablanca Earrings Isabel Marant shopbop.com $63.00 SHOP NOW These stylish, yet understated drop hoop earrings will make the perfect addition to your mom's earring collection. 27. Sunflower Stemless Wine Glasses Sunflower Stemless Wine Glasses Shopbop @Home shopbop.com $45.00 SHOP NOW Make her happy hour even happier with this set of four bright wine glasses. Sunflowers make pretty much everything better, right? 28. Portable Picnic Blanket Picnic Blanket SunnyLife shopbop.com $65.00 SHOP NOW Help Mom make the most of her backyard with a foldable and portable picnic blanket. She can have a fun, new experience without having to leave home. Win-win. 29. Vintage-Style Tea Light Holders Set of 6 Vintage- Style Tealight Candle Holders Vinnet Beauty amazon.com SHOP NOW If Mom's been spending as much time as possible outside (who can blame her?), then these vintage-style tea light holders will be the perfect way to amp up the ambiance of her patio, deck, or porch. Pro tip: Put some in 'em to keep those pesky mosquitos away come summer. 30. Wine Bottle Chiller Nixon Wine Bottle Chiller Jonathan Adler shopbop.com $133.50 SHOP NOW Make Mom's house the snazziest one on the block with this simple yet chic wine bottle chiller. It was practically made for her favorite pinot grigio. 31. Wireless Charger And Bluetooth Speaker Oslo Energy Wireless Charging Station and Bluetooth Speaker Lexon amazon.com $69.90 SHOP NOW Make your mom's life easier and more enjoyable this Mother's Day and every day with a combination wireless charging pad/Bluetooth speaker. She can power up while listening to her favorite tunes—what's better than that? You, but just by a hair. 32. Quay Australia Blue Light Blocking Glasses All Nighter Tort Clear Blue Light Glasses QUAY AUSTRALIA Chrissy X Quay amazon.com $55.00 $48.99 (11% off) SHOP NOW If your mom's been spending some QT with her computer and phone screens lately, she'll definitely appreciate a pair of blue light blocking glasses. And these babies from Quay Australia are so stylish (and celeb mom-approved!), she won't wanna take them off. 33. Monday 'Blink' Mug Monday Blink Coffee Mug Yes Studio amazon.com $11.79 SHOP NOW The weekend always seems to go by in a blink, so if your mom can relate—or if she's legit said that to you before—she'll love using this mug on Monday mornings. It might even make the first day of the week a bit more bearable. 34. Karma Living Tassel Pillow Karma Living Tassel Pillow Shopbop @Home shopbop.com $28.00 SHOP NOW Does your mom basically live on her patio furniture as soon as spring rolls around? Make her afternoons spent reading (or napping) outside even more comfortable with these cute and festive throw pillows. 35. Keto For Carb Lovers Cookbook Keto For Carb Lovers: 100+ Amazing Low-Carb, High-Fat Recipes & 21-Day Meal Plan amazon.com $24.95 SHOP NOW Your mom's not a regular mom, she's a keto mom. This cookbook and meal plan guide will make sure she doesn't miss out any of her former favorite carbs. 36. Super Soft UGG Robe No matter what she thinks about the trademark boots, your mom will love this luxe robe that features lightweight double knit fleece and comes in three colors. 37. Digital Picture Frame  Digital Picture Frame JEEMAK amazon.com $169.99 $101.99 (40% off) SHOP NOW This digital frame allows everyone in the fam to share pictures with Mom, even when you live far apart. All you have to do is download the frame's easy-to-use app, and then share away! 38. Baggallini Carry-All Tote Baggallini Carry-All Avenue Tote Baggallini amazon.com $39.99 SHOP NOW The woman who does it all needs a bag that can carry it all. This sleek, yet practical, option from Baggallini will make for a gift she'll treasure—and actually use—forever. 39. Fitbit Inspire HR Heart Rate And Fitness Tracker Fitbit Inspire HR Heart Rate and Fitness Tracker Fitbit amazon.com $99.95 $84.25 (16% off) SHOP NOW If your mom is always complaining about having too much "stuff," give her the gift of fitness and life-long health with a Fitbit Inspire. The sleek and small fitness tracker uses 24/7 heart rate to more accurately track her calorie burn, resting heart rate, and heart rate zones during workouts. And it comes in three cute colors! 40. Instant Pot Amazon Instant Pot Instant Pot amazon.com $89.00 SHOP NOW Kitchen gifts may seem a little retro, but the Instant Pot is having a serious moment right now—and for good reason. It can replace her pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice cooker, steamer, yogurt maker, sauté duties, and need for a warming pan—so it's essentially like giving her seven gifts in one. You're welcome, Mom! 41. Striped Keds Women's Double Decker Breton Stripe Sneaker Keds amazon.com SHOP NOW An easy slip-on sneaker is a must for busy moms, and these summery stripes are a fun addition to her wardrobe.  42. Mother-Daughter Necklace Let your mama know you're always with her, even when you're not physically with her with this cute and thoughtful necklace. It nails the perfect balance between simple and elegant—and basically guaranteed to bring on the happy tears.  43. Honest Beauty Face Wash  Sulfate Free Magic Gel-to-Milk Cleanser Honest Beauty amazon.com $14.99 $9.60 (36% off) SHOP NOW Made by a mom (Jessica Alba, cough cough) for moms, this face wash ~magically~ transforms in her hands from a gel to a milk that cleans without drying out her skin.  44. SodaStream Jet Sparkling Water Maker SodaStream Jet Sparkling Water Maker sodastream amazon.com $79.99 $63.68 (20% off) SHOP NOW If your mom's a low-key La Croix addict (okay, who isn't?), she'll love having a SodaStream so she can make her favorite fizzy drink whenever she wants. 45. ANDI Yoga Gym Bag The ANDI Small Tote ANDI shopbop.com $44.40 SHOP NOW Meet the only yoga/gym bag your mom will ever need. Not only does it come with straps to secure her yoga mat, but it also has smart storage spaces to fit all her workout essentials.  46. Outer Order, Inner Calm Outer Order, Inner Calm: Declutter and Organize to Make More Room for Happiness amazon.com $16.99 $12.04 (29% off) SHOP NOW If your mom's a fan of Gretchen Rubin's podcast, she'll probably love her book on decluttering and organization, too. Just make sure to clean your childhood bedroom before she reads it. 47. At-Home Juicer Breville Compact Juicer Breville amazon.com $99.95 SHOP NOW If you've got a health-minded mama, she'll love this easy-to-use kitchen gadget. 48. Adidas Originals Women's Swift Essential Sneaker Women's Swift Essential Sneaker adidas Originals amazon.com $77.21 SHOP NOW The best way to show Mom just how proud you are that she's been slaying her at-home workouts? Gear her up with some awesome new kicks. These sneaks are a totally solid running shoe—perfect for all her outdoor jogs—and cute enough for your mom to wear with her best athleisure, too. 49. Jewelry Case Caroline Zip Jewelry Case WOLF amazon.com $85.00 SHOP NOW Mom would never buy herself this chic organizer, but that's exactly what makes it such a useful (and awesome) gift! Now, she can always keep her family heirlooms safe in style. 50. WHStronger Membership Subscribe Now Okay, this might be a little biased, but seriously, your mom will love a daily dose of the best health and fitness advice out there. Snag a one-year all-access subscription to Women's Health magazine and WomensHealthMag.com for just $20 (yes, really!).  Lindsay Geller Lindsay Geller is the Love & Life Editor at Women’s Health, specializing in entertainment news and culture coverage. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io