Title: 21 Best Face Moisturizers With SPF 2021

Text: Even if you're spending your days primarily inside, and the sun isn't out, your skin is still in need of SPF. Since sunscreen should be applied every day—yes, literally every day—why not consolidate steps by using a sunscreen/moisturizer hybrid? The hydrating formulas give you the benefits of sun protection without the white, streaky aftermath. Plus, it makes it that much easier to apply (aka no more excuses about forgetting to put on sunscreen), especially now that warmer weather is approaching, and we’re craving spending more time outdoors (hello, spring!). Look for moisturizing ingredients like hyaluronic acid, ceramides, or niacinamide that give your skin a drink without leaving it greasy. And if you're still in the camp of "my skin doesn't get burned," that's not an excuse to skip daily SPF. According to The Skin Cancer Foundation, "no matter your skin type, UV radiation from the sun and other sources can cause dangerous, lasting damage to your skin." Sunscreen isn't just about protecting your skin from a sunburn; it also reduces your risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma (the second most common type of skin cancer) by about 40 percent (again, according to The Skin Cancer Foundation) and lowers your melanoma risk by 50 percent. And if it's aging you're worried about, it has your skin covered there too as it prevents wrinkles, sagging, and age spots as well. Ghostly white cast turning you off? That’s because sunscreens (even in moisturizers) are usually “white and thick by nature which makes them stand out—mainly in darker skin tones. This leaves behind the white cast, which is the greyish-purple ghosting effect caused by the sunscreen,” says Kemi Fabusiwa , MD, board-certified dermatologist. If you have a darker skin tone, choose chemical sunscreens, which don’t leave the white cast behind. “Chemical sunscreens provide very high, broad-spectrum UV protection and do this in lesser concentrations, Dr. Fabusiwa notes. These SPFs are “lighter and are formulated specifically so that they don’t leave behind a white cast.” And, if you still want to banish the white cast, say hello to tinted sunscreen! 🙌 (Keep reading for some favorites.) To get all these benefits of SPF, you have to make sure you're wearing it correctly: “Just remember, you need at least a nickel-size drop of sunscreen or SPF moisturizer to cover your face every morning," says Mona Gohara, MD, dermatologist and Women's Health advisory board member. Here are the 21 best moisturizers with SPF that you won't mind applying every. Single. Day.  1. Bolden SPF 30 Brightening Moisturizer If you need to incorporate a moisturizer with SPF into your routine, reach for this one. It’s packed with safflower oil to repair the skin’s barrier and calm dry skin. The vitamin C that’s also in this moisturizer will brighten your skin and smooth any discoloration. Don’t forget about the SPF 30 that protects against UV damage. SPF 30 Brightening Moisturizer Bolden boldenusa.com $28.00 SHOP NOW 2. UnSun Mineral Tinted Face Sunscreen Specially formulated for those with darker skin tones, this mineral-based moisturizer won't leave a white cast. The tinted sunscreen multitasks by adding protection against harmful rays and color-correcting hyperpigmentation. Mineral Tinted Sunscreen SPF 30 UNSUN dermstore.com $29.00 $23.20 (20% off) SHOP NOW 3. La Roche-Posay Toleriane Double Repair Face Moisturizer SPF 30 Have acne-prone skin? Then this moisturizer is for you. The formula contains a prebiotic blend of ingredients that keeps your skin’s microbiome healthy. And, you’ll get just the right amount of SPF to protect your skin. Toleriane Double Repair Face Moisturizer La Roche-Posay amazon.com $19.99 SHOP NOW 4. Origins A Perfect World SPF 40 Moisturizer with White Tea No one has to know that you're fighting signs of aging while receiving needed protection from harmful UV rays simultaneously. This moisturizer combines SPF with antioxidant-rich ingredients (like white tea) to protect your skin and keep it youthful. A Perfect World™ SPF 40 Age-Defense Moisturizer with White Tea Origins sephora.com $47.00 SHOP NOW 5. Paula’s Choice Essential Glow Moisturizer SPF 30 Whether you're new to adding SPF to your skincare routine or you're a veteran looking to cut your skincare steps down, this moisturizer makes protecting your skin simple. The creamy texture melts into your skin without leaving a greasy feeling behind. Although it's a mineral-based formula, there is no white cast, which creates a smooth canvas for makeup application. DEFENSE Essential Glow Moisturizer SPF 30 Paula's Choice dermstore.com $29.00 SHOP NOW 6. Dermalogica Prisma Protect SPF 30 If you love the sun but love your skin more, give this high-tech moisturizer a try. The light activates the moisturizer to engage the intelligent drone technology in the formula to give your skin a subtle glow. You’ll also find sage in the formula that evens and smoothes the skin. Prisma Protect SPF 30 Moisturizer Dermalogica sephora.com $65.00 SHOP NOW 7. Drunk Elephant Umbra Tinte Physical Daily Defense Sunscreen SPF 30 You would never know this natural sunscreen houses a whopping 20% zinc oxide thanks to the blendable tint. (Read: You will not mind applying this every day.) You'll also get antioxidant protection thanks to algae and sunflower sprout extract. Umbra Tinte™ Physical Daily Defense SPF 30 ⓘ drunkelephant.com $36.00 SHOP NOW 8. Glossier Invisible Shield SPF 35 Does your skin start looking greasy at the mere thought of applying sunscreen? This one is for you. The clear, gel formula absorbs fast and blends in without leaving behind any white cast or weighing your skin down. Dare we say it almost even mattifies the skin?  Invisible Shield Glossier glossier.com $25.00 SHOP NOW 9. Fenty Skin Hydra Vizor Invisible Moisturizer SPF 30 This oil-free, lightweight moisturizer blends right in so fast you'll forget if you even applied it. And if you don't want to listen to WH about wearing sunscreen, maybe you'll take a page out of Rihanna's book: “You gotta protect your skin from the sun no matter what your skin color is" she says on the Fenty site. "If you have discoloration, guess what, you can get that from the sun. I think a lot of people with darker skin tones think because they’re not burning that they don’t need SPF but we can still get sun damage." Fenty Skin HYDRA VIZOR INVISIBLE MOISTURIZER SPF 30 fentybeauty.com $25.00 SHOP NOW 10. Simple Kind To Skin Protecting Light Moisturizer SPF 15 Whether you have oily skin or you just prefer a lighter consistency, this lotion will be your new fave. It soaks into skin quickly and is basically weightless after it's been applied—you might even forget you have it on—making it ideal for layering. Plus, it's non-comedogenic so acne-prone folks won't have to worry. Simple Skincare, Protecting Light Moisturizer, SPF 15 iherb.com $10.27 SHOP NOW 11. Black Girl Sunscreen SPF 30 Made by Black women for Black women, you can trust that this sunscreen/moisturizer hybrid isn't going to leave any white streaks behind. Avocado, jojoba, and sunflower oil all contribute to the rich, hydrating texture that sinks in without clogging pores or leading to breakouts. Black Girl Sunscreen SPF 30 blackgirlsunscreen.com $18.99 SHOP NOW 12. CeraVe Hydrating Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 50 Face If you're prone to an oily T-zone, this hydrating sunscreen is for you. Ceramides and niacinamide nourish your skin without making it feel greasy, and the mineral SPF ingredients (it contains both titanium dioxide and zinc oxide) keep you sun safe. CeraVe Hydrating Sunscreen SPF 50 Face ulta.com $4.00 SHOP NOW 13. Suntegrity 5-in-1 Tinted Moisturizing Face Sunscreen Moisturizing gold standard hyaluronic acid is paired alongside coconut oil and aloe vera for a refreshing and hydrating formula. And thanks to the tint (there's four shades to choose from), it'll even out your complexion too. Suntegrity 5-in-1 Tinted Moisturizing Face Sunscreen credobeauty.com $45.00 SHOP NOW 14. Aveeno Absolutely Ageless Daily Moisturizer SPF 30 Most derms recommend a combination of sunscreen and an antioxidant product (to fight aging free radical damage from UV exposure) for the best daily protection. This lightweight lotion has it all in one. It hydrates, has SPF 30, and contains a combination of blackberry extract and vitamins C and E for an antioxidant boost. Aveeno Absolutely Ageless Daily Moisturizer SPF 30 ulta.com $21.99 SHOP NOW 15. Neutrogena Hydro Boost Water Gel Lotion SPF 50 Hate the feeling of thick, greasy sunscreen? Meet the complete opposite. This gel sunscreen hydrates (thanks to hyaluronic acid, glycerin, and vitamin E) and protects (thanks to a combo of proven chemical sunscreen ingredients) all while feeling like nothing on your skin. Neutrogena Hydro Boost Water Gel Lotion SPF 50 ulta.com $15.99 SHOP NOW 16. Dr. Jart+ Cicapair Tiger Grass Color Correcting Treatment SPF 30 This triple threat corrects redness, moisturizes, and protects your skin from UV damage. Centella asiatica (an herb native to Asia) is the hero ingredient that works to protect the skin from environmental stress that can lead to irritated, inflamed skin. While the cream goes on green, it quickly turns into a neutral shade to blend into your skin tone for a more even complexion. Cicapair™ Tiger Grass Color Correcting Treatment SPF 30 Dr. Jart+ sephora.com $19.00 SHOP NOW 17. Sobel Skin RX Plant Stem Cell Day Cream SPF 30 Yes, this is a moisturizer with sunscreen, but if you couldn't tell from the name, it's also packed with plant stem cells (they actually make up 15.5 percent of the formula) that fight free radicals to prevent collagen breakdown, promote firmer looking skin, and help smooth fine lines.  Plant Stem Cell Day Cream SPF 30 SOBEL SKIN Rx sephora.com $75.00 SHOP NOW 18. Murad Oil And Pore Control Mattifier SPF 45++++ Ever feel like your sunscreen is leaving your skin looking like an oil slick? Meet your new SPF BFF. Not only does it protect your skin from UVA (what causes aging) and UVB (what causes your skin to burn) rays, it also claims to minimize pores by 54 percent and keeps your skin matte for up to 10 hours. Oil and Pore Control Mattifier Broad Spectrum SPF 45 PA++++ Murad sephora.com $42.00 SHOP NOW 19. Supergoop! Superscreen Daily Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 40 PA+++ The combo of chemical sun protection ingredients (avobenzone, homosalate, and octisalate) in this nourishing cream provide your skin safety from UVA and UVB rays. It also contains cerium, a mineral that protects from the blue of your computer screen, television, and phone. So, you're double protected. Supergoop! Superscreen Daily Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 40 PA+++ sephora.com $38.00 SHOP NOW 20. Olay Total Effects Whip Face Moisturizer SPF 25 Extra oily skin types, meet the moisturizer-SPF face cream that will not leave you looking like a greaseball. It has a whipped texture that absorbs in seconds and leaves a velvety smooth finish that looks great under makeup. Total Effects Whip Face Moisturizer with Sunscreen, SPF 25 Olay amazon.com $28.99 $24.07 (17% off) SHOP NOW 21. L'Oréal Paris RevitaLift Bright Reveal Brightening Day Moisturizer SPF 30 If you're starting to see hyperpigmentation, then you need to up your SPF game. Start with a brightening product like L'Oréal's. This sunscreen lotion contains SPF 30 to stop new dark spots from forming and a combination of glycolic acid, vitamin C, and retinol to treat any existing discoloration. L'Oréal Paris RevitaLift Bright Reveal Brightening Day Moisturizer SPF 30 lorealparisusa.com $19.98 SHOP NOW This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io