Title: What Should I Bring For Camping?

Text: These days, sleeping in the woods doesn't mean completely roughing it. Whether you're interested in glamping in a National Park, camping on a beach, or pitching a tent in a forest, these 30 pieces of camping gear (gadgets, accessories, and more!) are guaranteed to make your next outdoor adventure that much more enjoyable. Need more incentive to spend some time in the great outdoors? Doing so will do your body (and mind!) a lot of good, according to science. You can actually quiet the part of your brain that's responsible for overthinking by spending time in nature, per research published by PNAS. Below you'll find everything you need to feel like a badass while you hit the trails, the beach, or the countryside to spend some quality time communing with Mother Nature—from tents you can totally pitch by yourself, to sleeping bags, lanterns, and all the other outdoor camping gear that'll make your next adventure all the more great! 1. A super-comfy mattress pad Neoair Uberlite Sleeping Pad Therm-a-Rest amazon.com $159.95 SHOP NOW This pad could seriously roll up and fit in your pocket, yet doesn't sacrifice an ounce of comfort when it's time to lie down after a long day in the backcountry. 2. A female-friendly pack Renn 65 Backpack Osprey amazon.com $164.95 SHOP NOW A durable, lightweight pack that's carefully crafted with women in mind. From the contoured shoulder and hip straps to the adjustable back panel suspension, it is the perfect multi-day adventure partner. 3. A lightweight backpacking tent Stargazer 2 Tent Eddie Bauer amazon.com SHOP NOW Simple setup (yes, even if you've never put up a tent before) and plenty of room for two, this is an easy pick for a weekend in the woods. 4. A nice-and-roomy tent Outback Camping Tent Kelty amazon.com $167.87 SHOP NOW When away-from-home comfort is more of your goal, this is the tent you want. Steep walls give tons of head room, and you can comfortably fit up to four people without being totally cramped. 5. A trusty headlamp Swift RL Headlamp Petzl backcountry.com $119.95 SHOP NOW This "smart" rechargeable headlamp automatically adjusts brightness to whatever you need in the moment. It's a game-changer for evening hikes and midnight bathroom runs. 6. A quick way to freshen up Power Shower Wipes Nathan Sport nathansports.com $4.99 SHOP NOW No matter how many days it's been since your last shower, these minimally-scented wipes will keep you feeling fresh and clean. 7. A mosquito-repelling lantern Scout Mosquito Repellent Camp Lantern Thermacell thermacell.com $39.99 SHOP NOW Whether you're in the backyard or backwoods, this lantern will help you stay free from mosquitos—no sprays, DEET, or open flames required. 8. A lightweight sleeping bag Marmot Hydrogen Sleeping Bag Marmot amazon.com $319.92 SHOP NOW This down-filled sleeping bag is the perfect companion when you're looking to pack light during summer months when the temps won't really drop. 9. A sleeping bag to share with your SO Eco Trail Bed Double 20 Sleeping Bag The North Face amazon.com $178.95 SHOP NOW If you're camping as a couple, this fit-for-two sleeping bag will seriously up the cozy factor. Bonus: The side zipper makes it easy to sit up for fireside cuddling. 10. A durable flask Boulder Flask GSI Outdoors amazon.com $16.50 SHOP NOW Whether you're tailgating, skiing, canoeing, or camping, this is one of the best flasks for outdoor happy hours, thanks to it's easy silicone grip and wide mouth for easy filling, pouring, and sipping. 11. A space-saving stove Pocket Rocket 2 Ultralight Stove MSR amazon.com $44.95 SHOP NOW A fan-favorite of backpackers everywhere, this lightweight stove won't weigh you down or make your stomach grumble at camp (it boils a liter of water in just 3.5 minutes!). 12. A easy-to-prep hot meal Chili Mac with Beef Mountain House amazon.com $8.99 SHOP NOW We don’t want to sound overly sensational because we get it, it’s freeze-dried food. But time and time again, we've been surprised by how satisfying these just-add-water meals are. 13. A perfect backpack snack RX Nut Butter, Vanilla Almond Butter, 10 Count RXBAR amazon.com $12.90 SHOP NOW While we're on the topic of food, do yourself a favor and bring these on your next backpacking trip. When you're eating a lot of trail mix and bars, these feel like a total luxury. 14. A seriously impressive compact stove Everest Two-Burner Camping Stove Camp Chef amazon.com $129.99 SHOP NOW Looking to step up your campsite cooking game? This double burner is one of the most powerful—yet impressively portable—compact stoves around. 15. An easy-to-carry cooler Trooper LT 30 Cooler Otterbox otterbox.com $239.99 SHOP NOW Turn this soft cooler into a mini-fridge on your next car camping trip. Just a little ice and it will keep your food and drinks cold and fresh for days. 16. An all-in-one kitchenware set Adventure All-In-One Two Bowl Cookset Stanley amazon.com $34.69 SHOP NOW Cutting board, bowls with lids, spatula, ladle, 1.5L pot, and a vented pot lid...ten pieces of essential cookware that nestle up into a nice little bundle. This means you can serve up a serious meal literally anywhere. 17. A lightweight, multi-use pot Mini Solo Hybrid Cookset Snow Peak amazon.com SHOP NOW Trying to travel light? This multi-use pot with heat-resistant lid and cup is the perfect size for all your solo (or duo) backpacking needs. 18. A handy pocket multitool Signal Multitool Leatherman amazon.com SHOP NOW Pliers. Saw. Fire starter. Whistle. Oh, and 15 other useful tools, wrapped up into one pocket-sized package. Camping gear win! 19. A lightweight table Table One Hard Top Helinox amazon.com $139.95 SHOP NOW Lightweight, super-packable, and an all-around classy way to bring a little chicness to a backcountry picnic party. 20. A crazy-compact chair Ultralight Portable Folding Low Back Camping Chair Naturehike amazon.com $45.99 SHOP NOW Don't be surprised if you sit down and never want to get back up. These lightweight chairs are that comfortable. Plus, they fold up small and weigh only 2.4 pounds, making them easy to stash and take with you on any excursion.  21. A perfect set of string lights SiteLight Mini multi SLB1001 BioLite bestbuy.com $19.99 SHOP NOW Bring a little extra glow to your campsite with a few strings of these dimmable lights. Major Instagram-worthy ambiance and definitely an essential camping gear find. 22. A super-durable charger Power Pack 20 Battery Charger LIFEACTÍV lifeproof.com $63.99 SHOP NOW Drop it onto rocks, sink it in a river...this thing will still recharge your phone, watch, camera, laptop, or whatever other tech you're bringing with you into the woods. (Including, aforementioned string lights.) 23. An exceptional outdoor blanket Lowlands Blanket Yeti yeti.com $199.99 SHOP NOW Part tarp-like waterproof ground cover, part super-cozy blanket. This product repels anything wet (also, dog hair!) on one side, while delivering a perfect star-gazing comforter on the other. 24. A quick-drying towel Amazon Quick Dry Microfiber Camping Towel Set Outdoor Life Adventures amazon.com SHOP NOW Soft, super-absorbent and fast drying, these anti-stink towels are easy to put in your pack and will get plenty of action during long weekends in the woods. 25. A bug-repellant jacket BugsAway Damselfly Jacket Exofficio amazon.com $90.00 SHOP NOW Not a fan of bugs? Add this lightweight jacket to your camping gear stash. It uses an odorless, built-in Permethrin-based technology to provide protection from pests like mosquitoes, ticks, and other bugs. 26. A durable flashlight 74751 Strion LED High lm Rechargeable Professional Flashlight Streamlight amazon.com $117.93 SHOP NOW You’ll need a reliable light source to navigate the dark, and this one features a ridged grip, long lasting, fully rechargeable batteries, and a bright LED light to help you get through the cloudiest of nights. 27. An extra set of batteries CopperTop AA Alkaline Batteries Duracell amazon.com $6.77 $3.99 (41% off) SHOP NOW Channel your inner scout and prepare for anything by packing some extra batteries in your backpack—you never know when you might need them. 28. A temperature-controlled mug Stainless Steel Travel Mug Thermos amazon.com $27.96 SHOP NOW Before you head off on a great adventure, it's important to find a travel mug that can do both—as in keep your drinks hot...or cold. This one can keep beverages piping for up to seven hours or chilly for 18. 29. An easy coffee maker Go Travel Coffee Maker AeroPress amazon.com $31.95 SHOP NOW Camping doesn’t mean you have to give up your morning caffeine routine: This portable coffee maker brews both hot and cold coffee in minutes, cleans up easily, and can be packed in a single tower, making it easy to stow. 30. A self-inflating pillow Camp Dreamer Self-Inflating Pillow REI Co-op rei.com $34.95 SHOP NOW Not a fan of laying your head down on the ground? No biggie. Try this compression pillow on for size. It expands easily when unpacked, has valves so you can adjust the inflation level, and comes with the softest pillowcase for a spa-like experience, even while out in the woods.  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io