Title: Jessica Alba's On Exercise, Family, And Business During Pandemic

Text: Jessica Alba leads the 190 employees of the Honest Company—the nontoxic beauty and home goods brand she founded—from a desk smack-dab in the middle of Honest’s light-filled, open-concept Los Angeles headquarters. That is, when she isn’t on the road, expanding into new markets (Europe) or speaking at a female-entrepreneurship conference on the other side of the world (China). Oh, but that was all pre-pandemic. These days, she clocks in from a closet at home. “This is where I take my meetings,” she says during a video chat on a recent Monday. “Total privacy. I don’t need to hear my kids, and they don’t need to hear me.” To be fair, it’s a pretty sweet closet. She’s curled up in a cushy beige armchair next to large glass doors, wearing violet leggings and a lavender sweatshirt. Doing business, for Jessica, previously meant putting on her game face and, as she puts it, “grinding, grinding, grinding” through nearly every waking moment—even some nonwaking ones. LEFT ON FRIDAY swim top, leftonfriday.com; ALICE + OLIVIA skirt, aliceandolivia.com; BRINKER & ELIZA earrings, brinkerandeliza.com Djeneba Aduayom OYE SWIMWEAR swimsuit, oyeswimwear.com; LAURA LOMBARDI earrings, lauralombardi.com Djeneba Aduayom “I often would wake up in the middle of the night with that heart-beating-fast, drenched-in-sweat, three-in-the-morning panic,” she says. “That was something I just accepted. I like to execute with excellence. I remember every small, dumb detail. It all stays in this brain, and it’s really hard to shut off. I think that’s common, especially for women. And it’s just not okay.”  Watch Jessica talk about her skincare routine and her body after having three children: Indeed, the changes we’ve all gone through in the past year made Jessica realize that she, too, can embrace new ways of being and perhaps do something to address that nightly freak-out or finally put it to rest. Spoiler: It’s been a process, but she’s come to understand that sometimes wellness means breathing and crystals; other times, it means tacos and tequila. And while those things may sound contradictory, if 2020 taught her anything, it’s that it’s okay if all of your needs don’t fit into a tidy box.  ALALA top, alalastyle.com; LEFT ON FRIDAY bottom, leftonfriday.com; JENNY BIRD earrings, jenny-bird.com DJENEBA ADUAYOM “The pandemic has forced me to be comfortable with things not being completely buttoned up, with allowing myself to not always have the answer, for mistakes to kind of stay as is.” Since founding Honest in 2011, Jessica has been laser-focused on building the company into a force to be reckoned with in the marketplace as well as a force for good in the world. But as a pioneer in the nontoxic space, and as a founder who some critics tried to dismiss as just another Hollywood actress with a vanity project, it was an uphill battle. Being constantly on helped Jessica score a lot of wins (the company now does a reported $350 million in annual sales), but she admits she also “learned a lot about what I don’t know. At every stage, I learned that fun lesson: what I’m not good at.”  It took the lockdown and the shift away from the office environment for Jessica to see that she didn’t have to choose between growing Honest and taking care of herself—in fact, her company could be even more successful if she led from a place of peace rather than perpetual overwork. “The pandemic has forced me to be comfortable with things not being completely buttoned up, with allowing myself to not always have the answer, for mistakes to kind of stay as is,” she says. “It’s also reinforced that real joy comes from the moments when, you know, we’re playing a game with the kids at dinner, or when [son] Hayes wants to show us his latest trick on the scooter, or from our family walks. That’s the stuff that truly matters.”  OYE top and bottoms, genny.com; MODERN WEAVING earrings, modern-weaving.com; Jessica’s own earrings (second and third, worn throughout) and ring (worn throughout) Djeneba Aduayom Jessica and her husband, the film producer Cash Warren (they met on the set of the first Fantastic Four movie, in which Jessica starred), have been able to spend a lot more time with their three children—3-year-old Hayes, 9-year-old Haven, and 12-year-old Honor—over the past year. And family, in all its forms, is something Jessica has been ruminating on for a while—for work purposes. This year, she’ll begin production on Parenting Without Borders, a travel docuseries about different styles of parenting around the world that she will executive-produce and host for Disney+. So I ask Jessica how she reorients herself personally when it feels like things—homelife, work, the state of the country, all of the above—seem to be spinning out of control. She tilts her camera, revealing a bar cart arrayed with crystals. Amethyst, pyrite, selenite, citrine, rose quartz—you name ’em, Jessica’s probably got ’em. “This is just a regular quartz,” she says, picking up a jagged, translucent hunk of rock, “you know, standard issue.” She named a line of Honest lip glosses after different crystals, and she recently bought a crystal grid—a sunburst-shaped art piece meant to distribute energy—on Etsy. (It hangs on the wall of her closet office.) “When I’m feeling anxious, I hold on to a crystal and do breathing exercises and try to focus on the energy of love, kindness, and calming,” she says.  Another newly adopted habit that helps her deal with the swiftly changing world: early-a.m. self-care. “In the mornings, I put on a face mask and a thick swipe of lip balm so I can be under this layer of hydration while I’m getting my coffee. My son is always like, ‘Mommy, what’s that?’ Every time he looks over at me when I’ve got the mask on, it’s like he’s seeing me for the first time,” she says, laughing. “But it reminds me that I’m allowed to take care of myself as well. It’s a little bit of tender loving care to start the day.”  DODO BAR OR top and skirt, dodobaror.com; JENNY BIRD earrings, jenny-bird.com Djeneba Aduayom And before a big virtual meeting, she might light a stick of palo santo, a type of wood native to Central and South America (its name translates to “holy wood”), hold a crystal, and take a few deep breaths. (If you’re noticing a pattern here, you’re right. Breath work is big for Jessica.) “Connecting to my breath calms me down,” she says. “Then if I can do some kind of movement every day, in a way, that’s my meditation.”  The past year has given Jessica a fresh perspective on exercise too. “I always thought, I need to sweat out my weight in water, I need to have muscle failure, I need to feel like I just ran a marathon—that’s how hard I needed to work out.” When gyms shuttered and her routine was interrupted, she realized she didn’t need to go all out, All. The. Time. Sometimes a workout now is a walk while listening to a podcast. “I’ve learned to mix it up and not feel like a failure if I’m not, you know, killing myself,” she says. Lately, she works out two to four times a week. She recently discovered reformer Pilates (in a COVID-safe environment) as well. “I feel every muscle in my core,” she says, talking about her sweat revelation. “I never even knew I had those things.” “Four days a week, I try to eat plant-based, and I don’t drink alcohol. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, all bets are off.” Then there’s the vegan hiking retreat she went on with a friend over the summer…which must mean she’s vegan and into hiking, right? “No,” says Jessica. This was another 2020 leap of faith. “We’re not hikers. Every time we were shocked to get up the mountain, then the people ahead of us would be like, ‘Halfway point!’ ” She was also never a huge fan of vegan food—or so she thought. She enjoyed the offerings on the trip so much that she kept up some of the habits. “Four days a week, I try to eat plant-based, and I don’t drink alcohol,” she says. “Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, all bets are off. That feels like moderation to me.”  There’s no doubt the past year has gently (er, forcibly) led her to be more adaptable, and she’s finally figured out what makes her mind and body feel good. This breakthrough, in a sense, is about “understanding the full scope of what I need to be my best self for my kids, my friends, my family, my work, and most importantly, probably, for me, so I can feel more…I hate the word balanced, but maybe…more connected,” she concludes about her updated frame of mind, whether that means she’s in her closet or on a stage. Either way, she’s got her crystals. DJENEBA ADUAYOM Photographed by Djeneba Aduayom Fashion editor: Kristen Saladino Styling consultant: Ariella Masjedi Hair: Brittney Ryan Makeup: Aurora Bergere Manicure: Diem Truong using Dior Vernis at Star Touch Agency This article appears in the January/February 2021 issue of Women’s Health. Become a WH Stronger member now.