Title: Sri Lanka's leopards are under threat, but this woman is determined to save them

Text: (CNN) Having endured a bloody civil war from 1983 until 2009, Sri Lanka is now at peace and developing rapidly. That's good news for the country as a whole, but the island nation's leopards are under threat. Sri Lankan conservationist Anjali Watson says that as forests where leopards live are cleared to plant crops and build homes, the big cats are being squeezed into pockets of wilderness that don't connect with each other. "We've lost a lot of leopards," says Watson. Nobody knows how many prowled the land before the war, but about 70% of the animals' habitat has been destroyed, and only 750 to 1,000 adult leopards remain, she says. What's more, leopards are at risk of getting caught in snares. The wire traps are usually set for bushmeat species, including wild boar and deer, but they are indiscriminate in what they catch. Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Sri Lanka is one of the world's 34 "biodiversity hotspots," and the country is heavily dependent on its biodiversity for tourism. Pictured, a male peacock puts on a show in the country's Yala National Park. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife There are up to 5,000 elephants left in Sri Lanka. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Elephants enjoying a stroll and a leafy snack. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Sri Lankan temple monkeys taking a well deserved rest. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Sri Lankan leopards each have a unique pattern of spots. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Sri Lankan spotted deer are important prey for leopards. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Blue whales -- the largest animals on Earth -- swim in Sri Lankan waters. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Wild boars in Yala National Park. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Hikkaduwa is one of the top diving spots on the island thanks to its impressive coral reefs and ship wrecks. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Sri Lanka's incredible wildlife Tea plantations cloak Sri Lanka's hill country. They occupy much of what was once prime leopard habitat. Hide Caption 10 of 10 Read More