Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Birdseed' From Eruptive Cysts On Instagram

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a bunch of eruptive vellus hair cysts. She says these pimples are filled with "birdseed." Dr. Pimple Popper uses her fingers to squeeze everything out and show off the contents under the microscope. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is off and popping this Thursday. She has a bunch of pesky pimples calling her name. Her latest Instagram video shows all the juicy fruits of her efforts. For all the fruit fans and Popaholics, you don't need to worry about literal fruit popping out in this video. Dr. Pimple Popper is squeezing out "birdseed," so all your snacks and fave foods are safe for the time being. She writes on the screen: "They pop out like birdseed." Then, Dr. Pimple Popper contradicts herself in the caption: "Not a birdseed but an eruptive hair cyst! Fascinating! 👀 Follow me on TikTok @drpimplepopper #drpimplepopper #eruptivevellushair" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. You can be the judge of what's spewing out of the skin on this one. Dr. Pimple Popper uses her comedone extractor tool to get the eruptive vellus hair cysts going. And boy do they get going. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. She presses down with the tool and blob of gunk comes spurting out. That looks pretty impressive and satisfying. Then, Dr. Pimple Popper one-ups herself and puts all the contents under the microscope. It reveals a whole new world inside the pimple. There's hair and a bunch of mush that show up in super clear detail. If you thought the regular view was satisfying, just wait 'til you see the incredible microscope perspective. One fan wrote, "THESE are sooo interesting! I love how u show us the microscopic view! ❤️" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io