Title: Model's Allergic Reaction To Peanut Pretzel Left Her Brain-Damaged

Text: In 2013, model Chantel Giacalone went into anaphylactic shock after eating a peanut butter pretzel. She had a severe allergic reaction and suffered brain damage due to anaphylaxis. Now, her family has been awarded $29.5 million after suing the ambulance company for negligence. On Friday, April 9th, a Las Vegas jury awarded $29.5 million to the family of Chantel Giacalone, a former model and actress who suffered brain damage after going into anaphylaxis at work. Giacalone's family, who now cares for her, sued the ambulance company on-site, citing negligence. In 2013, Giacalone, then 27, was modeling at Mandalay Bay South Convention Center in Las Vegas, Nevada, when she ate a pretzel a friend gave her. The pretzel contained peanut butter, and Giacalone went into anaphylactic shock. However, the medics on duty at the event, MedicWest Ambulance, didn't have intravenous epinephrine on hand, which is needed if a patient's body has already gone into shock. Instead, they used intramuscular epinephrine. Intravenous epinephrine is required by the Southern Nevada Health District, according to the Associated Press. During anaphylaxis, the immune system produces chemicals that attack the allergens as if they're pathogens, like viruses, bacteria, or fungi. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, are all common symptoms. The tongue and throat swell up, blocking airways and making breathing difficult, according to the Mayo Clinic. In the circulatory system, blood vessels "begin to leak blood into your tissues," per Healthline, and blood pressure drops significantly. In order to increase blood flow and relax the body, adrenaline in the form of epinephrine is used, but if it's not administered immediately (or correctly), the brain can experience oxygen loss, which is what happened, sadly, in Giacalone's case. After her anaphylactic response led to serious brain injury, she became quadriplegic and requires 24/7 care from her family. She is now only able to communicate with her eyes. Model Chantel Giacolone in 2011 Beck Starr Getty Images "I don't want her to go anywhere else. I love her, and she loves me," Giacalone's mother Deborah said, according to the Las Vegas Review-Journal. "It's very hard to take care of her, but I would not have it any other way." "At least my daughter will be taken care of. I'm happy about that," her father said, following the jury's decision. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io