Title: Jennifer Lopez And Alex Rodriguez Say They Didn't Break Up

Text: Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez released a statement that they haven't broken up. This comes after multiple publications reported that they'd called off their two-year engagement. J.Lo also released a TikTok video throwing shade at headlines covering their split. After their breakup in mid-April, new details have emerged explaining why exactly Jennifer Lopez ended her engagement to Alex Rodriguez. An unidentified friend of the Shotgun Wedding actress told People that J.Lo "insisted" that the former power couple break up. "There are too many issues that are unresolved," the source said. A huge issue? Jennifer couldn’t fully trust Alex anymore. Apparently, their split had been building up for a while. "She has been pretty miserable," the source said, adding that the Marry Me star "didn't think it was in her best interests to stay with Alex." Being stuck together 24/7 during the COVID-19 pandemic didn’t help matters, either. "They both liked spending more time together as a family, but it was difficult to keep that special spark when they saw each other every day," another source told People. Rumors that A-Rod had cheated on J.Lo exacerbated the issue. Sources revealed to People that the couple didn’t break up over an infidelity and that whether or not A-Rod ~actually~ cheated "doesn’t matter." A source explained, "She won't tolerate the fear of it in the air between them." The former couple are "sad" for their blended family since their kids are close, and "it’s not a good situation but inevitable," J.Lo’s friend also said. The "In The Morning" singer is already bouncing back from the breakup, though. "She is not one to sit around and cry," the source said. "Her kids make her the happiest. She is doing well." She’s also getting support from her ex, Marc Anthony, who recently brought their twins, Max and Emme, to the Dominican Republic where she’s filming Shotgun Wedding. "Having him around while she has had to work abroad has been very comforting," the source said. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. On April 15, J.Lo and A-Rod released a joint statement to Today, announcing that they had broken up. "We have realized we are better as friends and look forward to remaining so," the statement said. "We will continue to work together and support each other on our shared businesses and projects. We wish the best for each other and one another's children. Out of respect for them, the only other comment we have is to say is thank you to everyone who has sent kind words and support." But there were signs that things weren’t great between the couple before that. On March 12, a series of news outlets, including PageSix, reported that the engaged power couple had broken up after several years together. The next day, however, a rep for the couple told CNN that the reports were "inaccurate" and that the couple was still together and "working through some things." J.Lo also shared a TikTok montage on Sunday set to Saweetie's "Pretty B*tch Freestyle" that really, really briefly addressed the split rumors. (The song has lyrics that include, "I ain't worried bout a blog" and "Every lie off your lips get me views.") In one snippet, you can see a headline about the split, next to comments A-Rod made on Saturday to paparazzi saying, "I’m not single." The Marry Me star captioned the whole thing, "Sunday brunch playlist." This content is imported from TikTok. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Those breakup rumors didn’t come out of nowhere, though. A source told People that the couple had "hit a rough patch." "They never officially broke up and talked about it but are still together. They hit a rough patch. But were not broken up," the source said, noting that reports that the former New York Yankees player allegedly had an affair with Southern Charm star Madison LeCroy "had no bearing on the rough patch at all." (A source previously confirmed the breakup to the publication on Friday, saying, "This has been a long time coming.") The two are also physically separated right now. "She's working in the Dominican Republic, and he's in Miami so it's tough seeing each other, especially with quarantining and COVID," the source told the publication, adding, "but they want to try to stay together." Still, the couple’s social media posts have definitely hinted that things were off between them. After sharing tons of family photos and a J.Lo highlight reel throughout the last year, A-Rod posted a solo pic on a boat in Miami the same day news of the split came out. He wrote: "Don’t mind me, just taking a sail-fie ⛵️ . What are your plans for the weekend?"  This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And a day earlier, J.Lo shared a montage of laughing on Instagram with the caption: “Find a good reason to laugh today… Sending everyone love.” This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. J.Lo and A-Rod's four-year relationship has basically played out like a rom-com. They went public with their romance in early 2017 and got engaged in 2019. Over the years, they took many vacations as a couple and with their children from previous relationships. They were Vanity Fair cover stars together in 2017 and opened up about their blossoming 'ship. "We are very much twins," Alex told the magazine. "We’re both Leos; we’re both from New York; we’re both Latino and about 20 other things." It wasn't all smooth sailing the last year, though. J.Lo revealed that she and Rodriguez saw a therapist during their time in quarantine, per PageSix. "I think it was really helpful for us in our relationship." J.Lo reportedly feels that the decision is the right one for her. "They will try to be friends, and there is respect there," a source said. "But they are definitely going their separate ways." This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io