Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Mashed Potatoes' Cheek Cyst In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helped a patient with a giant pimple on the cheek. It was an overstuffed cyst filled with what looked like mashed potatoes. Dr. Pimple Popper used her fingers to squeeze every bit of gunk out of the bump and replayed the extraction in slow motion for a super satisfying clip. It's only Monday but dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is already wow-ing her fans. She extracted a piece of "gnocchi" from her patient's pilar cyst and now she's working on another monster cyst. This one is even larger than the pilar cyst, and it's filled with very different gunk. This cyst has been growing on Dr. Pimple Popper's patient's cheek for who knows how long. That's all stopping right here, right now. The dermatologist has a plan to knock it out for good. It's all going down in her latest Instagram video for your viewing pleasure. "Couldn’t re-cyst squeezing this BIG cheek cyst! 🤏 #drpimplepopper #cysts" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper is full of puns, and this cyst is full of gunk. She goes in with her fingers ready for battle. Dr. Pimple Popper squeezes again and again until all the mush is out in the open. Then, the camera zooms in extra close and replays the whole extraction in super slow motion. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. One fan was impressed and wrote: "Perfect squeeze, I can never understand why people don't bleed when you operate." Another Popaholic noted the precise, close-up camera work: "Ok I am loving this zoomed-in view. Makes me think it's going to hit me when it pops out 😆😆 Love it!!" Other fans were enjoying all of it and commented, "That was a good one! I seriously watch your videos any time I need to unwind lol." Dr. Pimple Popper couldn't resist squeezing this one, and her fans can't resist watching it. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io