Title: Watch Jessie J Show Off Her Abs In New Dancing Instagram Video

Text: Jessie J, 33, showed off her abs in a new dancing video shared to her Instagram. In the video, she dances with her boyfriend, pro dancer/choreographer Max Pham Nguyen. Besides cardio, the singer recently shared videos doing strength training workouts. Feeling comfortable enough to dance like nobody’s watching can be tough to pull off, even for seasoned performers. And singer Jessie J just shared that she’s working on being more confident when she dances. "Actively searching for layers of my confidence I last felt in college. 15 years ago," the 33-year-old wrote in the caption of an Instagram video that features her dancing alongside her boyfriend, pro dancer/choreographer Max Pham Nguyen. "I’m no dancer. But I love to dance," she continued. "Give me a couple months and I might even whip out a time step in a music video. 🦖 Thank you @max__pham for sharing your light with me. I already feel brighter. 💐 Also the last move is called the 'ska da da deet deet.'" The video is so sweet. In it, the couple do a series of dances together, with plenty of snuggling and smooching in between. It wraps up with the two of them doing a coordinated dance that’s super fun to watch. IDK, but Jessie looks pretty confident busting it out on the dance floor to me. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The "Flashlight" songstress also just looks amazingly fit. Jessie is working a white crop top over a red bra in the video, and her abs are super toned. "This made me happy 😍 you look amazing!" one fan wrote in the comments of her video post. And there were tons of fire emojis (because, hello!). Jessie has been working hard to maintain a healthy and active lifestyle. Besides dong some serious cardio with her dancing, she shared workout videos on her Instagram Story of herself owning the gym earlier this month. Jessie did leg lifts with an exercise band, used the stair climber, did a quad workout with another exercise band, did pull-ups with TRX bands, worked through sit-ups, and powered through a rowing workout. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. BTW: Jessie does not mess around with her exercise routine. "When I come out of the gym, I’m blotchy red and sweaty, but I feel good," she told HuffPost in 2017. "It’s about the longevity of your life, not how you look in the morning." Jessie also told Women’s Health UK that she works out to feel mentally strong. "You do a workout, and it gives you that pickup. It makes me feel alive," she said. She also eats with her overall health in mind. Jessie told Plant Based News in 2019 that she altered her diet after having fertility issues. "I cut out sugar from my diet to try and stop bacteria from building up in my body," she said. "Once I cut out sugar, I realized how much I began to enjoy food when it was good for me—and it was balancing out everything—my health, my moods, my sleep." This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io