Title: 15 Comfortable Walking Sandals For Women In Summer 2021

Text: If your feet hurt just looking at someone wearing stilettos on your Instagram feed (@me), you know you need comfortable walking sandals to survive the spring and summer. From strolling through the park to hanging out in your backyard, your feet deserve to look cute without sacrificing comfort. So, you need a pair of kicks that can not only get the job done in the moment, but make sure you're still standing at the end of the day. Enter the new generation of comfortable walking sandals. I know, I know. Historically, comfortable sandals have gotten a bad rep for looking like they belong in your grandma's closet instead of the front row at fashion week, but it's 2020, people! TikTok has taken the internet by storm, Hannah Brown and Tyler Cameron are probs back together, and comfortable sandals just became your favorite pair of shoes (trust me on those last two). Sure, comfortable sandals for women still need to have sturdy, rubberized soles, a cushioned footbed for arch support, soft uppers made of natural fabric or leather, and buckled ankle straps. Buuuut—believe it or not—you don't need to sacrifice style to get all that. These 15 comfortable walking sandals will work for anyone (no matter what kind of foot problems you're dealing with) and go with practically everything in your closet. All you need now is a fresh pedicure, and you're good to go. 1. Teva Voya Infinity Sandal Voya Infinity Sandal Teva amazon.com $40.00 $27.99 (30% off) SHOP NOW The classic Teva sandal recently got a facelift any Real Housewife would envy with these colorful, rugged infinity straps. Plus, the sporty-chic webbing won't chafe your skin, but is still super durable. 2. TOMS Sicily Sandal Sicily Sandal TOMS amazon.com $68.88 SHOP NOW If you're going for a classic look, these sandals are minimalist, while still supportive. (Oh, and btw, they come in black, too.) Best part? The cushioned sole, combined with their wear-anywhere style, makes these sandals perfect for any occasion. 3. Aerosoles Lewis Sandal Aerosoles is known for making comfortable shoes, but their latest sandals are right on trend for this summer. Besides having a fun animal print, these strappy kicks offer style with an extra cushioned footbed, too. (Not into leopard print? Not a prob—these sandals come in five other neutral colors, too.) Watch a hot doc explain why your feet are peeling: 4. Vince Sport Sandal Carver Sport Sandal VINCE nordstrom.com $135.00 SHOP NOW This stylish brown leather sandal looks super sleek and sporty at the same time, making it perfect for anything from a relaxing day at the beach to an afternoon hike. 5. Lunna Platform Ankle Strap Sandal Lunna Platform Ankle Strap Sandal MIA amazon.com $54.97 SHOP NOW This comfy-cute sandal comes in tons of colors with a sporty white platform. The padded footbed will be easy on your soles, so the only hard part is deciding which shade to get. (Might wanna get a few pairs, just to be safe...) This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. 6. Steve Madden Bandi Wedge Sandal Bandi Wedge Sandal Steve Madden amazon.com $55.99 $47.99 (14% off) SHOP NOW Platform sandals are a must-have for summer, and the bold design on these Steve Madden ones will help add a little ~flare~ to your warm weather wardrobe. Not to mention, the easy on-off straps and cushioned footbed will ensure that your feet won't be screaming at you by the end of the day. 7. Sanuk Yoga Gora Sandal Women's Yoga Gora Sandal Sanuk amazon.com $24.99 SHOP NOW These yellow sandals were designed with the bright summer sun in mind. Not only will you want to wear them all day and all night, but the yoga mat footbed (yes, really!) means you actually can. 8. Vince Camuto Rickert Crossband Sandal  Rickert Crossband Sandal Vince Camuto amazon.com SHOP NOW Not a flip-flop fan but want a stylish slide-on-slide-off shoe? This pair's got ya covered! These Vince Camuto slides are versatile, sleek and chic, and—best of all—won't make your whole foot hurt the way some flip flops do. 9. Dr. Martens Blaire Sandal Blaire Sandal DR. MARTENS nordstrom.com $99.95 SHOP NOW Dr. Martens don't just make your favorite pair of combat boots, they've got super cute sandals now, too. The chunky oversized shoe look is a huge summer trend, and the classic air-cushioned outsole offers serious comfort and durability. 10. Birkenstock Arizona Arizona Soft Footbed Birkenstock zappos.com $135.00 SHOP NOW The Birkenstock: No longer just for your weird, hippie uncle. The latest updates of this iconic shoe marry serious style with best-in-class comfort. While usually take several weeks to break in, models with the Soft Footbed have a foam layer in between the cork and suede that provide immediate comfortable cushioning. Oh, and the metallic rose gold will add the perfect pop of color to your summer wardrobe.  11. L’Amour des Pieds Brenn Ankle Strap Sandal Brenn Ankle Strap Sandal L'Amour Des Pieds amazon.com $99.95 SHOP NOW Tres chic, no? These French-made shoes offer a half-inch heel for height, sans sore feet. That, combined with a sturdy ankle strap to prevent slippage and cushioned soles, means all-day comfort. Plus, the leather is super-durable, meaning they'll last you multiple seasons. 12. Naturalizer Wedge Slide Sansa Wedge Slide Sandal NATURALIZER nordstrom.com $110.00 SHOP NOW The short wedge heel, cushioned sole with arch support, and baby blue color make this pair of slides a great and stylish choice for a sandal upgrade. Bonus: They're super quick to break in, so you can spend more time having fun this summer. 13. FitFlop Lulu Lulu Fit Flop FIT FLOP amazon.com $79.00 SHOP NOW Looking to upgrade your traditional summer flip flops? Try FitFlops. The slip-resistant rubber sole is perfect for rainy days, and a contoured footbed offers the arch support you need for a full day on your feet. 14. Vionic Kirra Orthoheel Sandal Kirra Orthaheel® Sandal VIONIC amazon.com $62.50 SHOP NOW The T-strap instantly dresses up any outfit, meaning you can take this sandal from day to night in a cinch. (And with six color choices, you can match these shoes with any outfit.) Plus, the sole is designed to stabilize the foot and keep pressure off your heel. Win-win. 15. See By Chloe Wedge 'Robin' Wedge Sandal SEE BY CHLO nordstrom.com $221.25 SHOP NOW Chic meets comfy in this summer sandal. Thanks to its padded insole, your feet won't get tired wearing this wedge all day (and night) long. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io