Title: Who Is Miranda Lambert's Husband? Meet Brendan McLoughlin

Text: Country singer Miranda Lambert and her husband Brendan McLoughlin made their first public appearance at the ACM Awards last year. Miranda and McLoughlin secretly got married in January 2019 after dating for less than a year. Miranda was previously married to fellow country singer Blake Shelton. They got divorced in 2015, and he's currently engaged Gwen Stefani. Country singer Miranda Lambert is set to perform at the 2021 Grammy Awards on Sunday at 8 p.m. ET on CBS Television Network and Paramount+. The "It All Comes Out In The Wash" songstress is also nominated for three awards: Best Country Solo Performance, Best Country Song, and Best Country Album. Ahead of the awards shows, she opened up to Entertainment Tonight in a recent interview about her outfit for the night…but she made it clear that her husband, Brendan McLoughlin, is her best accessory. "I have a dress, and a really hot husband who has a really nice suit, so we're good on that," the "Settling Down" singer told the publication. Of course, this isn't the couple's first red carpet. That happened way back when at the 2019 American Country Music Awards. The couple made their first public appearance as husband and wife after marrying in January 2019. They dated for less than a year prior to tying the knot. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And while the two-time Grammy winner has been walking fewer red carpets with hubby Brendan lately due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, it's clear he'll be supporting her and cheering her on (from a safe distance) at this epic moment in her career.  After all, they've been a huge part of each other's lives for nearly the past two years. From rescuing a kitten named Tequila to spending time together in their new Airstream to adorable date nights in Nashville, both Miranda and Brendan have shared sweet moments from their relationship on social media. (And can I just say, awwww?) This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And not only does Brendan support his wifey when she's up for an award, but he even takes part in making that musical magic happen. He recently appeared in Miranda's music video (shirtless) for her song "Settling Down." This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. That's all cute as can be, but wait, who exactly is Brendan McLoughlin? Here's everything you need to know about Miranda's husband: He's a model-turned-police-officer. Tbh, I can't say I'm surprised about the first part, given his looks. Brendan worked for the New York Police Department's South Midtown Precinct and often appears in the precinct's tweets. Miranda's parents actually also both work in law enforcement, so this connection likely drew her to Brendan. (Or maybe it was that smile... who can say?)  This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This week these fine officers showed what we do best in #Midtown. PO McLoughlin apprehended perpetrator in a bank robbery in progress & PO Donato had a pick up arrest of a truck burglary closing out several open complaints. Job well done guys!! #ItsWhatWeDo #NYPDprotecting pic.twitter.com/7SooN2O9GS — NYPD Midtown South (@NYPDMTS) March 12, 2018 They met through work. People first reported that Miranda and Brendan first met last November, when she was performing with her Pistol Annies bandmates on Good Morning America. The show films in Times Square, which Brendan's police precinct just so happened to cover. "My husband was doing security there for the show. My girlfriends, the Annies, saw him and knew I might be ready to hang out with someone," she told the New York Times. "They invited him to our show behind my back." This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. He is now part of Miranda's security team. While Brendan was working for the NYPD when they met, he has left his job to work for Miranda as part of her security team, according to Country Living. He's eight years younger than Miranda. Brendan is 28 years old, while Miranda is 36 (quite the 180 from Blake, who was seven years older than her). But age is nothing but a number for these two. Brendan wrote Miranda a super sweet message on her 36th birthday. "Would love to just wish a happy birthday to my amazing wife. Not only am I thankful, but I am so proud to be able to call you my wife," he wrote. "You are the most genuine and caring person I truly have ever met. The amount of rescue dogs we have says it all. You go above and beyond to make sure those around you are always happy." This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. He's also a dad. People confirmed that just after Miranda and Brendan's wedding, he welcomed a child from a previous relationship in November, right around the time he and Miranda first met. Brendan is still keeping a pretty low profile (fair, since he's, ya know, a police officer), but based on their smiles and the way Miranda gushed about her new husband after their nuptials on Instagram it seems like they're incredibly happy together. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. He and Miranda just celebrated their two-year anniversary. In January 2021, the country star posted a throwback snap from their wedding day in honor of their second anniversary. "2 years hitched!! ❤️ @brendanjmcloughlin #anniversary 📸: @_blythethomas," she captioned the post. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Brendan shared an anniversary post of his own, featuring a pic of home chef Miranda with a total "if you can't take the heat, stay out of the kitchen" look on her face. (Apparently, you do not want to mess with her when she's armed with wooden spoons!) "Happy anniversary to this amazing woman. @mirandalambert 🔥," he simply wrote. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. He’s spent quarantine traveling with Miranda. In February 2021, Brendan posted a photo of himself snuggling up to Miranda and a series of amazing food snaps, sharing about what they’ve been up to the past few months…including the fact he’s gained 10 pounds. "Attach the airstream to the hitch, get in the car and go. Traveling, no matter where it is, has always been a love of mine. Walking the streets of a place you’ve never been, learning the history, it’s absolutely fascinating. Anyone who knows me though, knows my absolute love for food. Charleston and Asheville have left me speechless, 10 pounds heavier and made me realize exactly why I keep my gym membership. Thanks for all the amazing food @hallschophouse @dinehighcotton @harkencafe @curatetapasbar @carmellascharleston. As for @therealmoosecafe keep making the biscuits and @mirandalambert will keep coming back," he captioned the post. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Miranda has also posted about their Airstream travels, which included a trip to South Carolina and Georgia. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io