Title: Brabus upgrades 2021 Mercedes-Benz S-class to 493bhp

Text: The new 2021 Mercedes-Benz S-class hasn’t been in production for all that long, but Brabus has already been working on the flagship saloon, despite AMG’s version still being under wraps. Based on the S500, Brabus has tuned more power from the powertrain and made changes to the exterior and interior, with more performance additions coming in due course. The 3-litre straight-six S500 is the currently most potent S-class available, providing a foundation for Brabus’s B50 piggyback ECU module that extracts an additional 64bhp and 52lb ft of torque. This brings total output to 493bhp and 435lb ft through tweaked mapping for injection, ignition and boost pressure. > Next Mercedes-AMG C63 to receive four-cylinder hybrid power Aided by its 4Matic all-wheel drive system, the 0-62mph sprint now happens two tenths sooner than it does from the factory, at 4.7sec – its top speed remains at 155mph. The tuner can also lift output of the S400d by 39bhp and 37lb ft of torque for a 5.2sec 0-62mph time. Tweaks don’t stop in the engine bay, with a range of exterior components available for any AMG Line model. The kit includes a more aggressive front splitter, new front intake surrounds, LED daytime running lights and a rear diffuser section making room for a set of black chrome quad exhaust tips – Brabus also says a carbonfibre lip spoiler will be offered soon. There are also new 21-inch forged monoblock wheels available, wrapped in 265-section front and 305-section rear tyres – lesser 19- and 20-inch offerings are also available. A software adjustment for the air-suspension system is also able drop ride height by up to 25mm too. The cabin gets the usual Brabus treatment, with a completely reupholstered interior should you have the budget. Brabus-branded illuminated sill plates are also included as standard, and can even match the colour of the interior ambient lighting. The example shown by Brabus here specifically includes two-tone leather, a dark chrome coating for the switchgear and new carbonfibre trim pieces. Brabus says that more tuning packages are in the pipeline, and there’s no doubt it’ll turn its hand to AMG variants the moment they roll out of Affalterbach.