Title: 7 Best Chlorine Removal Shampoos

Text: Although a swim is always refreshing, even a quick dip in the pool can damage your hair. “Chlorine has a tendency to strip the hair of its natural oils,” says George Papanikolas, Matrix celebrity colorist. The water-treating chemical attacks the lipid layer on the hair’s surface and causes the cuticle to raise, which results in porous, dull hair that's more susceptible to dryness, color fading, and breakage.  Chlorine interacts with hair color differently depending on your shade. Once chlorine comes in contact with brown hair the color fades, leaving an underlying orange pigment. “Blonde hair absorbs the minerals and chemicals and can take on a greenish cast,” says Papanikolas. But it isn’t just color-treated hair that’s at risk. “Chlorine oxidizes the internal disulfide bonds in hair causing it to lose strength and elasticity, which leads to breakage,” says Joe Cincotta, PhD, R&D director at Federici Brands. Don't worry, you don’t need to totally skip out on swimming—you just need to ensure you’re diligent about how you care for your hair both before and after. “Wet your hair with freshwater before you enter the pool so that it absorbs less chlorine,” advises Papanikolas. Hair is like a sponge, so the more fresh water it absorbs ahead of time, the less likely it is to soak in the chemically-treated water. Post-pool, you might be inclined to reach for a clarifying shampoo, but you should steer clear. “A clarifying shampoo will exacerbate the dehydrating effects of chlorine and will not effectively remove the mineral deposits,” says Cincotta. If you swim on the reg, a chelating shampoo is a better choice. It will target hard-water minerals and chemicals, like chlorine. However, chelating shampoo can further dry out your hair in the process and should be used sparingly. For regular use, the secret to keeping your summer hair healthy while splashing around? A hydrating shampoo, which will wash out the chlorine while restoring moisture.