Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Outta Sight' Ear Blackheads In New Video

Text: Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is getting her followers through the middle of the week with a super-satisfying blackhead extraction video. She posted a 12-minute video on her YouTube channel where she extracts blackheads from behind a male patient's ear. She then talks with him about possible preventative measures he can take.  Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is getting her followers through the middle of the week with a super-satisfying blackhead extraction video. On Instagram, she gave just a taste of what you can expect in the 12-minute video she posted on her YouTube channel, which features her extracting blackheads from behind a male patient's ear, referring to them as "outta sight" blackheads. "‘Outta Sight Blackheads’ are you on YouTube right now! 👀 Link in my bio #drpimplepopper #extractions," she captioned the post. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. "It might be a little bit pinchy," says Dr. P as she starts to work on extracting the blackheads from her patient's neck. She first stabs a giant blackhead with a sharp tool, and from there she just uses her hands to squeeze out a big chunk of white gunk. She grabs a pair of scissors to help get everything out, then goes in with an extraction tool to keep pressing. And even more gunk comes out of it. As she works, she asks her patient what he does for a living that may be causing his skin to break out. "Do you work with a lot of chemicals, or things that make a lot of dirt or grease?" she asks. "We have a lot of dust and dirt with the machinery," the patient says. BESTOPE Blackhead Remover BESTOPE amazon.com $8.99 SHOP NOW From there, she talks with him about possible preventative measures he can take. "The other thing I would think about to help prevent this is to try to have some products that will help to clean your pores a little bit," she tells her patient. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And her followers ate it up. "Made me check behind my ears," one fan wrote. Another quipped, "Didn't listen when his mom said 'wash behind your ears billy.'" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io