Title: 7 Best Workout Gloves Of 2021 – Top Weight Lifting Gloves

Text: Sure, strength training can boost your metabolism, help you lose fat and build lean muscle, and even improve your mood. But as anyone who lifts weights can attest to, getting ripped can also rip up your hands from all the rubbing and friction. So, if you’re new to weight lifting or feel like you need some additional support, it’s highly recommended that you get your hands on some workout gloves. “They can be extremely beneficial when looking to protect the overall health of your hands,” says Melody Davi, CPT, trainer at Obé Fitness. What's more: “They provide cushion to reduce hand pain, increasing wrist support, and preventing finger injuries," she says. "They are also extremely helpful at supporting heavier lifts because they decrease the risk of you dropping a weight when your palms get sweaty. They therefore also improve your lifting technique, as you’re not focused on the potential to injure yourself.” Still, not all workout gloves are created equal, which means you should be aware of what you’re buying. The right gloves will be breathable, supportive, and comfortable, and will allow you to work on your technique with ease. “Fit is crucial—choosing a glove that is too big or small will negate its benefits,” cautions Davi. “Comfort is also key, as is choosing the appropriate fabric that feels breathable but supportive, and deciding whether you prefer fingerless or gloves with the fingers covered.” Finally, workout gloves for weight lifting provide different levels of support, particularly if you're looking for options to help with wrist issues. So, you should make sure you know the reason you're seeking gloves—sweaty palms, callus protection, padding, and/or wrist support—before you make your selection. Pro tip? “Avoid choosing a glove that is incredibly padded or has wrist supports if you're looking for a lightweight glove to assist with grip strength, and vice versa—it’s important to make sure the glove is substantial if you need padding and wrist support,” explains Davi. Below, check out the top-rated workout gloves available online for all uses, so that you can rest assured you’re picking the best workout gloves for you.