Title: Aaron Rodgers & Shailene Woodley's Relationship Timeline, Explained

Text: Actress Shailene Woodley, 29, and football pro Aaron Rodgers, 37, are engaged! The Green Bay Packers quarterback dropped the bombshell announcement that he had a ~fiancée~ during his acceptance speech for Most Valuable Player during the NFL Honors broadcast earlier this month. And now, The Mauritanian star has confirmed the news on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. "So, it’s kind of funny. Everybody right now is freaking out over it, and we’re like, 'Yeah, we’ve been engaged for a while,'" the Big Little Lies alum told the late night host during her Feb. 22 appearance. "He’s, first off, just a wonderful, incredible human being. But I never thought I’d be engaged with somebody who threw balls for a living... But he’s really just so good at it." Right now, the couple is long-distance, with Shailene in Canada shooting a film called Misanthrope, and Aaron in Green Bay, Wisconsin.  "They have seen each other and been in touch," a source told E! News. "They continue to talk and see each other when they can. They are both focused on their careers but they also make time for each other." Speaking of time... how long did the duo date before Aaron popped the question? The couple has largely kept their romance private, but here's what you need to know about how their relationship has progressed: Sometime during 2020: Shailene and Aaron met.  On Jimmy Fallon, the Divergent star revealed that they met during the COVID-19 pandemic, probably during the summer or fall, after she returned from quarantining in a cabin in the woods following her breakup from rugby player Ben Volavola. "When I first met him, I think my dog like pulled me aside and was like, 'If you don’t date this dude, I will disown you as my mother, because the three feet that I run with you when you throw a ball is nothing compared to the marathon I’m able to run with him,'" Shailene explained during the interview. She'd never even been to a football game when they met—and still hasn't, though not for lack of trying. "We met during this wacky, wacky time and all the stadiums were closed that he was playing in, so I have yet to go to a football game," the Fault In Our Stars actress said. "I didn’t really grow up with sports, especially American sports. It was never really on my radar. When we met, also, I knew he was a football guy, but I didn’t know like what kind of a football guy he was. And I’m still constantly learning." Watch Shailene's full interview with Jimmy Fallon: This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. September 2020: Aaron hinted at his new relationship status. Last fall, Aaron went on the Pat McAfee Show and let slip that he had a "new and increased love of life," perhaps from a new relationship. "I've made decisions and changes and habits that put me in a lot better headspace, and there's just a lot of things that have come together in my life over the last few months that have really been enjoyable," he said. "That's why I'm having so much fun and it starts with love. And then surrounding yourself with people that you really enjoy." This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. October-December 2020: Shailene and Aaron moved in together. At some point late last year, the couple took their relationship to the next level by moving in together. "They have spent the entire fall together and lived together throughout," a source told E! News. "She is very supportive of his career and embraced his life in Green Bay. Even though she has her own career and life, she wanted to be there with him. Over the next year, they plan to spend some time traveling and enjoying a warmer climate." February 2021: Aaron thanked his "fianceé" during the NFL Honors broadcast. While accepting his NFL Most Valuable Player award, he thanked his supportive fianceé in his speech. "2020 was definitely a crazy year filled with lots of change and growth, some amazing memorable moments," he said. "One hundred eighty straight days of having my nose hair scraped, playing for very little fans or no stands the entire season. I got engaged." Watch Aaron's full MVP award acceptance speech: This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Sometime in 2021: Wedding bells? While many have postponed weddings since the COVID-19 pandemic began, Shailene and Aaron are planning to tie the knot ASAP. "They can't wait to get married, and they want it to happen soon," another source told E! News. "They had a very intense connection from the beginning. They both knew early on that it was something special and different from what they had experienced in other relationships. It's a quick engagement, but for those that know them, it didn't come as a surprise." This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io