Title: After 'Rocket Lake,' 5 Things Intel Must Do on Desktop to Get Its CPU Magic Back

Text: We're not keen on kicking a company while it is down, so we'll avoid the same introduction you've read a few dozen times already in the last couple of years: AMD and its Ryzen lineup is running loops around Intel and its desktop Core CPUs. And Intel keeps shooting itself in the sneaker, right when you think it might be about to get back into the race. The company's latest launch of processors, the 11th Generation "Rocket Lake" Core series, has been met with mostly ho-hum reviews (ours among them). At a time when Intel needed to really make the Empire State Building disappear, the mirror broke and everyone saw through the illusion. So, now that the dust of the Rocket Lake launch is settling, and the verdict is firming up on 11th Generation Core, what can Intel do to keep itself in the desktop-CPU race, with increasing pressure coming in from all sides? AMD is ever present, and firmly ensconced in 7-nanometer tech with Ryzen. And then there's the X-factor of Apple and its M1 line of CPUs that have shown up, so far, in laptops. Intel needs to act, and soon. Nothing happens quickly, mind you, in CPU World; technical bets that chip makers place pay out or bust over the course of years. But here's an action plan for an ideal world. 1. Get Off 14nm Let's start with the obvious stuff: Intel, don't "refresh" 11th Generation or try to squeeze another go-around from 14nm technology. The 10th Generation "Comet Lake Refresh" announced alongside Rocket Lake is a slight uptick of certain low-end 10th Generation Pentium and Core i3 chips, meant to bolster Intel's line of budget processors. There are no new truly low-end CPUs in the Rocket Lake family. Seeing how Comet Lake Refresh is an attempt to keep up in what's inarguably the largest segment of the desktop CPU market (midrange and low-end processors), let's hope that the company isn't looking to "refresh" models like the Core i5-11600K by the time the company's 12th Generation "Alder Lake" series of 10nm-based processors releases, reportedly sometime later this year. It's been seven years since Intel first began producing processors based on its 14nm lithography, and it's time to move on, equally from technology, marketing, and engineering leadership perspectives. The launch of the Core i9-11900K shows that Intel's engineers have pushed the process just about as far as it can reasonably go, even with its 10nm "Ice Lake" cores that have been backported to the 14nm process. The need to drop the flagship chip from 10 cores in the 10th Generation line to just eight now is a sign that the limits have been reached. Luckily, it looks like Intel has committed fully to its roadmap of releasing all future processors on its new 10nm design. New CEO Pat Gelsinger even recently gave a peek into its $20 billion plan to construct new 7nm fabs on the company's campus in Arizona. (Image Credit: Intel) Intel will reportedly build chips for both its own operations and other customers, part of what it calls its "Intel Foundry Services" network of fabrication facilities and potential partnerships with outside fabs like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC). It's a plan that could, if profitable enough, give Intel the footing it needs to get itself back on a roadmap that reflects more competitive positioning with AMD in desktop CPUs, in areas such as lithography, design, technology, production, and process. 2. Re-Cement PC-Gaming Supremacy Intel has proven, even with the humdrum Rocket Lake launch, that it knows how to do single-threaded compute very well. Even with the 14nm technical debt tied around its ankles, Intel hasn't had a problem achieving peak frame rates in games with the company's midrange and top-end offerings over the past few years, with those CPUs paired with a discrete graphics card. Take a look, for example, at some numbers we rounded up when testing the new Core i5 and Core i9 Rocket Lakes with a GeForce RTX 2080 Ti installed... The Rocket Lake chips (up top), as you can see, stayed pretty competitive. It wasn't always close, though. AMD's Ryzens did trail equivalent Intel Core desktop chips in gaming scenarios like these with the Ryzen 3000 Series. But the company's latest Ryzen 5000 Series of desktop CPUs has since closed the gap, in most cases. They have even taken the lead in several others. Now Intel has a real fight on its hands, with even AMD's highest-core count processors (like the 12-core/24-thread Ryzen 9 5900X) beating out the Intel Core i9-11900K in several popular games. That is a feat that's supposed to get more difficult the more cores that get added in. AMD has sharpened its Zen architecture to a fine-tipped spear, one that can strike at any soft point of Intel's seemingly on request. The Intel Core i5-11600K, of the two processors among the 11th Generation Rocket Lake line we've reviewed thus far, is currently Intel's best shot at maintaining relevance in the gaming conversation, let alone a leading position. Intel Alder Lake will need to pull out all the stops to decisively regain the lead that AMD has threatened in desktop PC gaming. And until we know more about either 12th Generation Intel or AMD Zen 4, we can't say for certain how this battle will shake out. Intel's response should come later this year; we're not sure about AMD's. For now, though, it's clear: AMD's Ryzen 5000 is now an equal or better pick for gamers who care about budget, thermals, or power consumption. And, ya know, high frame rates, too! 3. Please Stick With a Socket for a While A major area where the value proposition of AMD desktop CPUs over Intel ones is less obvious is in what's known as the "cost of adoption." Generally, this could be anything from the need to upgrade your PC's power supply to accommodate a more power-hungry CPU, up to buying a new motherboard to keep up with a refreshed chipset and a new CPU socket. AMD has been regularly releasing new Ryzen processors under its Zen architecture for just over four years now. And you can find current-generation CPUs like the Ryzen 9 5900X, launched in 2020, that could, given the right board model and BIOS update, technically work in a B350 motherboard launched in 2017. Now, there are no guarantees there. The situation is a bit more convoluted between different motherboard manufacturers and depending on the exact Ryzen CPU you want to use. But overall, AMD's Socket AM4 provides a level of chipset and socket backward-compatibility that Intel doesn't just struggle to match, but oftentimes looks like it is actively designing against. A two-generation cadence for sockets is nothing new for Intel, mind you. In the same four years that AMD has released desktop CPUs compatible with AM4, Intel has gone through two sockets, with yet another new socket (LGA 1700) planned for the release of Alder Lake later this year. Intel's approach has made the idea of an upgradable motherboard platform mostly null, while AMD is doing everything it can to bring as many old and new buyers into the Zen ecosystem as it can. AMD has shown that even the most current, bleeding-edge processors can be supported for a while on much older motherboards, if there is the technical will and agreement among board partners. So if Intel wants to stay competitive in cost of adoption, it needs to find a way to break up the two-step socket dance...and fast. 4. Get Integrated Graphics Up to AMD Standards As we mentioned above, the midrange and low-end market for desktop CPUs make up the lion's share of desktop chip sales. And sandwiched in there are plenty of CPUs with onboard graphics. Until recently, that was dominated by Intel's CPUs with its poky, utilitarian UHD Graphics integrated silicon (usually the UHD 630 or 600). We call them integrated graphics processors (IGPs). Many budget shoppers call them home. These types of processors are hugely popular in the OEM/system builder market for budget PCs, since it makes it easy to get a low-performance desktop PC (for office work, generally) off the ground. And a good IGP is, suddenly, especially important here in 2021 with the skyrocketing prices of graphics cards. However, plenty of PC gamers are also on strict budgets, and sometimes an Intel CPU with a UHD Graphics IGP or an AMD chip with its Radeon equivalent is the difference between owning a desktop PC you can play on, or having nothing at all. Let's go back to another chart, from our Rocket Lake chip launch testing, here of the IGP in the Core i5-11600K. For this segment of the market, the stellar Ryzen 5 3400G reigns supreme with the help of its on-the-chip Radeon RX Vega 11 IGP... As you can see from the chart tabs above, Intel obviously made big strides in improving its on-chip graphics architecture. The Rocket Lake line is the first on the desktop to integrate Intel's new Iris Xe graphics. That's in the form of a new UHD Graphics iteration, the UHD 750, in most cases. (Iris Xe first started showing up in 11th Generation "Tiger Lake" mobile CPUs in laptops, and it has been an eye-opener there.) Many of the scores and frame-rate results recorded during our Intel Core i5-11600K IGP testing (with the chip equipped with the new Iris Xe UHD Graphics 750 IGP) double those from just one generation prior. This is a big deal for Intel, as most of the chips in AMD's Ryzen lineup lack any IGP at all and require a video card to work alongside. (And, did we mention, video cards are expensive these days?) This uptick in IGP performance is a great start, but it still pales versus AMD's Ryzen IGP in the Ryzen 5 3400G, launched...back in 2019. AMD has a few of these killer IGP-equipped chips in its portfolio. (They are dubbed the G-series, with the other current one being the Ryzen 3 3200G.) They're great values for budget buyers looking to play games off an IGP, and while they are hard to find now for close to their list prices (an eye-bugging $149 and $99 at time of release), they are no-brainers for cheap gamers. Plus, we'd expect a Ryzen 5000 refresh of these G chips in 2021. They're overdue. And when they do hit, look out Iris Xe. 5. Don't Release Another Core i9-11900K We suspect the Rocket Lake Core i9 flagship may see a price adjustment before too long. It's too hot and too expensive for what it is. Plus, it was tricky to review. Many reviewers across the web, myself included, found this launch to be a struggle. To be sure, AMD is no stranger to prerelease BIOS or driver problems (both in its CPUs and GPUs), but what many benchmark testers had to deal with this time around had us looking forward...to Alder Lake. Our final verdict on Intel's latest flagship desktop CPU was thus tempered by some testing issues. But with a day or two having followed its release, the consensus across the review-o-sphere is in: This isn't Intel's finest silicon hour. That's uncanny from the desktop CPU maker that we usually pride on stability. Plus, the company priced the Core i9-11900K, an eight-core CPU, above its station, and with every opportunity to undercut AMD, it went the opposite direction and is charging too much for an underpowered, underbaked desktop CPU that came with two less cores than its predecessor for a higher price. We know silicon manufacturing is mega-bottlenecked these days, and prices are high, but core regression and price inflation in one chip? Come on! Intel has been in the crosshairs for several years now over concerns about its loss of a leadership position in the desktop space, with AMD lapping the company on desktop at most price tiers. The Core i9-11900K only cements the perception in the minds of gamers and content creators that Intel is more vulnerable to AMD's strategic assault than ever. The company's next venture into desktop CPUs will reportedly be on 10nm, which already puts it behind AMD on lithography before 12th Generation Core even gets off the ground. Perhaps what Intel needs to do is recognize that position, level with the market, and drop its prices accordingly. If the company knows Alder Lake won't be able to match what AMD has cooked up for Zen 4, playing the value game for a while might be the way forward. Other parts of Intel are still doing gangbusters, after all. Early rumors suggest Zen 4 will be based on TSMC's 5nm lithography and could launch sometime in early 2022, giving Alder Lake a slim window for Intel to entrench its fighting position in 2021 and beyond. Intel's Got a Long Road(map) Ahead If Intel doesn't value its bench of chips appropriately this time around, it could result in the company falling even further behind than it is already with this most recent launch. Now admittedly, the company's most recent online keynote with its newly minted CEO was surprisingly candid in nature, with the company openly recognizing that it's fallen behind, while also carefully laying out its roadmap for the way back. But, if any company is the poster child for the phrase "roadmaps are meant to be broken," in recent years it has been Intel. Will Intel's progress in building new foundries or (even before all the cement is dry on those) moving to 10nm be enough to put AMD back in its pre-Zen underdog position? Only time will tell. Our take is that Rocket Lake was a filler release, buying time for the next move. This time in 2022, we should know if was an aggressive advance up the chessboard, or just the lateral movement of a rook.