Title: Jana Kramer Divorces Husband Mike Caussin Due To Cheating

Text: After six years of marriage, Jana Kramer has filed for divorce from her husband Mike Caussin, per People. The country singer, 37, made the announcement via her Instagram on Wednesday, April 21. She captioned her post with just a "💔" emoji, while the post itself explained the reasons for the filing. "'It's time.' As I try to make sense of a reality I never wanted to believe could be possible again, those words have now become a reality," she wrote within the Instagram post. "I've fought y'all. I've loved hard. I've forgiven. I've put the work in. I've given everything I have, and now I have nothing else to give." She continued that she had done everything she could to make their marriage work, but ultimately it was time for her to "heal." "Please know that I still believe wholeheartedly in marriage, love, and rebuilding. I just can't fight any longer. It's time to heal," Jana continued. "Thank you for all the love, heart, and support, in many ways you have fought on this journey alongside me, and for that I am grateful. I'll always encourage you to continue the good fight, but you can't fight it alone. 💔." This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The post garnered tons of support from some of her famous friends. "Sending love your way mama. ❤️," wrote Teddi Mellencamp. Ali Fedotowsky commented, "Here for you ❤️." And fellow country singer Raelynn wrote, "So sorry Jana. Praying for your heart and babies through this time." A source told People said the ultimate reason for the split was because Mike was unfaithful to Jana (again). "He cheated and broke her trust again," the source explained. "After fighting for the marriage for so long, she's come to terms with the realization that his patterns were never going to change." The source also added, "The focus now is on their kids," referring to the couple's children Jolie Rae, 5, and Jace Joseph, 2. This isn't the first time Mike and Jana has dealt with cheating issues with publicly. Only a year after the couple got married and seven months after they had their daughter Jolie Rae, Us Weekly reported that the couple went on a break because Mike cheated on Jana multiple times. In 2016, Mike went to rehab to treat a sex addiction, according to People, and the couple eventually got back together. Still, Jana made it clear that it’s been hard to move forward. "We’re still working on it. We’re still fighting. It’s a process but, you know, as long as two people continue to work, then hopefully it works out," she told Us Weekly in early May 2018. They also renewed their wedding vows in December 2017, per People. Before the divorce announcement, the last time Mike had made an appearance on Jana’s Instagram was back on March 10, 2021. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And a few days later, Jana posted a teary selfie following a fight between them. "We talked about our blow up on this weeks [sic] podcast and I think it’s an important one for everyone to hear. No relationship is perfect and when blow ups or fights happen sometimes we believe it’s done and over but really it’s a moment for growth and more understanding and to lean into your partner," she wrote in the caption. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Jana had previously also been very candid about how crappy it was when her husband Mike Caussin cheated on her just a year after they were married—and how much it still impacted their relationship. At the time, Mike also joined in on the full-fledged-honesty bandwagon. During a 2018 episode of her podcast, Whine Down with Jana Kramer, the couple openly discussed their sex life (yes, really.)  At one point, the country singer told the former NFL player that she feels insecure sometimes because of his history of cheating: “There’s times when I do want to have sex but I play the game of waiting for you to come to me because I’m like, ‘Well, you know, why doesn’t he want me? Why doesn’t he want to sleep with me when he slept with someone else?’…We want to feel wanted and chosen and y’all didn’t choose us. For me, I wish we could find someone who could help us get out of our heads…How do we stay present? How do we stay in the moment and not feel like we’re having to meet these grand expectations that we might not be able to or at the time even want to?” Jana also said that the usually feels "rejected" by her husband if he doesn’t want to have sex, and things can spiral from there. "It’s not saying you don’t think I’m pretty or you don’t want to have sex with me," she explained. "But, you know when infidelity does play a part, that’s what affects our sex life and I get upset, you get upset." Mike was also really candid in the podcast about how important it is for the couple to talk about their feelings. "I think in general, especially when there is infidelity involved, communication is key," he said. "I think you and I have slowly gotten better at communicating…I feel passive-aggressiveness in the sense that you’re waiting for me [to come to you for sex] but there hasn’t been any talk about it and then I get in my head." Jana then said: "Because I want to feel chosen. Part of me is like, 'You left me, so choose me. Jump on me.'" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io