Title: 'After My Lupus Diagnosis, I Started A Lupus Awareness Community’

Text: Where do you go when you feel scared, confused, and lonely after a life-altering diagnosis? For many people, the answer is…online. In WH’s 2021 Owning It series, you'll meet nine self-starters who used social media and digital tools to seek solutions and community they couldn’t find elsewhere. Barriers, broken.  I started experiencing symptoms like severe joint pain in my wrists, my knees, my elbows, and my fingers at 17 or 18 years old. When I was 24, there was a two-month period where I wasn’t able to walk and I was completely bedridden. The first time that I heard about lupus was when I was diagnosed with it a few weeks later. I wasn’t given a lot of resources at the doctor’s office; I was just told that I had this condition, that I was going to be on medication for the rest of my life, and that I’d have a follow-up appointment in three months. That was really frustrating, and so I went online to find out what my life was going to be like living with this autoimmune disease. It was because of patients who had lupus and shared their health information online that I was able to realize that I wasn't the only person who had it. I was able to compare symptoms, ask about medications, and figure out what kind of specialists I needed to see. Within about two months, I decided I was going to be more vocal about what I was going through, because I had a lot of friends and family members who had no idea what was going on, and I had kind of dropped off the radar. I started a Facebook page called “Friends Against Lupus.” Other people started finding it, and I saw that a lot of people had lupus, that a lot of families were affected. I also began participating in online health care chats on Twitter, connecting with others who were sharing their experiences with the health care system, and I realized that there wasn’t one specifically for lupus. I wanted there to be an online space where people could talk, find community, and learn from each other's experiences. So in 2012, I started #LupusChat.  My co-hosts, Carly Harrison, Christele Felix, and Elizabeth SantaCruz, all started out as chat participants. We hold chats every other Sunday afternoon, and we talk about all things lupus-related—from pregnancy to nutrition to how lupus can affect your kidneys—with people diagnosed with lupus from all over. We've also gotten DMs from people who have said that, even though they didn't participate, they really felt like they were seen and heard based on the responses from other people. And we’ve had people who don’t have a lupus diagnosis join looking for health answers. I love the sense of community that #LupusChat brings. I remember how alone I felt when I was first diagnosed. I never want another person to have that experience during their early diagnosis days, so I really try to show up for the community and make sure that we have conversations that will resonate. This article appears in the March 2021 issue of Women’s Health. Become a WH Stronger member for a print subscription and more great perks now. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io