Title: Maserati Levante Trofeo review – is the most powerful series-production Maserati ever worth its £125,000 price tag?

Text: SUVs are a part of the street furniture, even if you’ve never owned one, and as much as they might be the antithesis of the traditional sports car, they have played a huge part in the survival of some of the best-loved brands – including Maserati. The Levante has only been around since 2016 but is already the best-selling Maserati of all time, having shifted over 40,000 units worldwide. Having already given the range a fillip with the addition of the diesel version alongside the V6 petrol, Maserati is now turning the heat all the way up with two turbo V8s: the GTS and this, the full-house Trofeo. More power and performance, revised suspension and a series of detail changes inside and out mark out the GTS and Trofeo from lesser models in the range, and put them in direct competition with high-end opposition such as the Porsche Cayenne Coupe Turbo, Audi’s SQ8 and the Lamborghini Urus. The result is a machine with far greater appeal than the standard car, with the engine dominating the driving experience. It can’t match the ultimate dynamic finesse of the Porsche but makes a tempting alternative to the German options. > Click here for our review of the new Porsche Cayenne Coupe Turbo Engine, transmission and 0-60 time Both versions share an F154 3.8-litre twin-turbo V8, already seen in the Quattroporte GTS and related to the 3.9-litre unit in Ferrari’s 488 models, hooked up to the eight-speed ZF automatic gearbox and four-wheel-drive system seen elsewhere in the Levante range. In top-spec Trofeo spec it delivers a significant 572bhp and 538lb ft of torque, making it second only to the MC12, and with launch control engaged it can batter through the 0-62mph sprint in just 4.1sec. Technical highlights Detail changes to the 3.8-litre V8 include a different crankcase, crankshaft assembly and belt layout to pair it with the ZF transmission, while the turbochargers, cylinder heads, pistons and cams are specific to the Levante. The Q4 four-wheel-drive layout continues to send all the power to the rear wheels unless slip is detected, when up to 50 per cent can be shifted forwards. A mechanical LSD is included with 25 per cent lock-up under power, while torque vectoring is provided by braking an inside wheel. The extra performance and a 60kg increase in weight has required a retune of the air suspension and Skyhook damping system, as well as a new Corsa driving mode above the existing Sport, Normal and ICE settings. Corsa sets the suspension 35mm lower than normal and the dampers in their stiffest setting. In addition, the Levante V8s have Integrated Vehicle Control, a predictive system working within ESP that can modulate the throttle and brakes, with the Trofeo’s calibration designed to reduce understeer. What’s it like to drive? An SUV might not be your first choice of home for a thumping V8 but it’s difficult not to get excited about having 572bhp at your disposal. It fires with a modest chorus from the exhaust, and flicking between the drive modes to get to the loudest settings reveals most of the noise comes from the rear rather than through the cabin. But you can’t hide the good breeding, and the combination of effortless torque and a willingness to rev makes it an engaging companion.