Title: DS 5 specification and prices confirmed – Citroën’s premium sub-brand welcomes new model

Text: Citroën’s premium sub-brand, DS, has revealed the technical specifications of its DS 5 hatchback ahead of its global launch in July. The car, which is essentially an updated version of the Citroën DS 5, has received a new front end and comes available with the choice of five drivetrains across three trim levels. Under the bonnet of the DS 5 is the choice of a 163bhp petrol THP 165 engine – capable of a claimed 47.9mpg combined, three BlueHDi diesels – producing 118bhp, 148bhp and 178bhp – and a 197bhp petrol-hybrid 4x4. The diesels deliver from 64.2 to 70.6mpg combined, and emit as little as 104g/km of CO2, but it’s the hybrid that offers best economy, delivering over a claimed 70mpg combined and more than 90mpg in town, while emitting less than 103g/km of CO2. Underneath, the new DS 5 gains new dampers with pre-loaded linear valve (PLV) technology, which DS claims will help to reduce any sudden movement through the suspension, making for a smoother ride. Furthering this comfort are seats and interior trim wrapped in nappa leather – these also feature electric memory and massaging functionality. DS claims that the 5 features class leading standard tech, adding a head-up display and updated infotainment system to all models – the latter system is controlled through a centrally mounted colour touchscreen. The touchscreen features iOS/Android connectivity, allowing passengers to access several of their phone’s functions while on the go. Citroën’s focus on passenger safety has clearly been passed in to its sub-brand, as the new DS 5 features no fewer than 10 safety systems overall. Aside from a raft of airbags and other passive systems, the DS 5 features lane departure warning, blind spot monitoring and automatic high-beam control tech, to name just a few. The model range consists of Elegance, a Limited Edition model which gets unique Blue Ink paint and badging to celebrate 60 years since the unveiling of the original DS, and the range-topping Prestige. All models send drive through either a six-speed manual or six-speed automatic gearbox. At the end of 2015, DS will add a 207bhp petrol engine to the drivetrain options list. Pricing for the DS 5 starts at £26,980 for the Elegance THP 165 model, and grows to £34,890 for a Prestige spec hybrid model. Order books open on July 1. We drove the DS 5’s predecessor, the Citroën DS5, late last year, and were impressed by its airy interior and comfortable seats. We weren’t so impressed with the car’s fidgety ride, however, so the fitment of new PLV dampers is certainly welcome.