Title: Solana (SOL) hits new highs as DApps, DeFi and stablecoins join the network

Text: The arrival of institutional investors and the rise of decentralized finance has been an incredible boon for the entire cryptocurrency sector, but it has also highlighted a number of persistent limitations that many blockchain networks encounter when faced with surges in activity and the need to scale. High fees and slower transaction times on the Ethereum network have left the door open for new layer-one solutions to emerge, and Solana is one such project that has been gaining traction lately. Data from Cointelegraph Markets and TradingView shows that the price of Solana (SOL) has increased 195% over the past month, rallying from a low of $12.19 on March 26 to a new all-time high of $36.10 on Monday on a record $1.4 billion in trading volume. Similar to how Ethereum rose to prominence in 2017, Solana’s strong performance in the past month was sparked by the launch of multiple projects on the Solana blockchain, with everything from legitimate DeFi protocols to pump-and-dump airdrops that brought speculators to Solana’s exchange. Fast transactions and low fees entice developers One of the biggest draws for the Solana network is its claim of being able to process 65,500 transactions per second, which is significantly faster than Ethereum’s current average of 18.3 TPS. The network’s ability to handle a larger load has also made the platform a cross-chain destination for projects such as Civic and the popular stablecoins USD Coin (USDC) and Tether (USDT). DeFi platforms such as Raydium and Serum have launched on Solana, and there is a growing list of projects in the process of transitioning to the network. Prospects for the network received another boost in early April when the Solana-based Sollet wallet released its Chrome extension that offers the Solana ecosystem functionality that mirrors the way MetaMask works for Ethereum. Simple yield opportunities attract DeFi users The Solana protocol utilizes a proof-of-history consensus combined with the underlying proof-of-stake consensus of the blockchain, which makes it easy for token holders to earn a yield on their SOL tokens while also participating in the network. The number of cryptocurrency wallets supporting SOL is also a sign that the project is garnering more attention. To date, Exodus, Ledger and Blockfolio are some of the more prominent wallets that offer support for the token. Preparing for the rise of @solana  Top wallets support SPL token in the ecosystem pic.twitter.com/3b2kmvUCwJ — Solanians ☀️ (@solanians_) April 8, 2021 A recent integration with the Phantom wallet has also brought fresh energy to the project, as it will enable the creation of a robust nonfungible token ecosystem on Solana, bringing one of the hottest sectors of the crypto market to the network. The views and opinions expressed here are solely those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of Cointelegraph.com. Every investment and trading move involves risk, you should conduct your own research when making a decision.