Title: How to Watch the 2021 Oscar-Nominated Movies Online

Text: (Image: Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences) When Parasite swept the 2020 Academy Awards, few of us thought it would be one of the last big events in the US that year. But as COVID-19 spread, movie theaters shut down, film festivals were cancelled, and blockbusters landed on streaming services. And it’s not over; just look at the Zoom Golden Globes and this weekend’s scaled-down, masked-up Grammys. In a bid to host a somewhat normal awards ceremony, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences pushed this year’s Oscars from Feb. 28 to April 25, and will split the event between two locations in Los Angeles: Union Station and the Dolby Theatre. As Variety reports, though, the only people who can attend are the nominees, their guests, and the presenters. Sorry, Hollywood types, you’ll have to watch from the couch in your sweatpants like the rest of us. In the meantime, movie buffs can get caught up on many of the top movies before the ceremony thanks to the magic of streaming. Four Best Picture nominees are streaming, while the other four are available to rent or buy online. Netflix dominates this year’s nods, but Amazon Video and Hulu sneak their way in there, while Disney+ and Apple TV+ land their first nominations, too. For special effects and filmmaking geeks, the Scientific and Technical Awards were held virtually in February; a full list of winners and video of the event is on Oscars.org. Here’s how you can watch the 2021 Oscar-nominated movies online. Best Picture Mank (Netflix) Director David Fincher takes his father’s screenplay about the writer and writing of Citizen Kane (which is also streaming, on HBO Max) and made it a black-and-white homage with a killer cast. (Stream it on Netflix) Nomadland (Hulu) Based on the 2017 book of the same name, Nomadland stars Frances McDormand as a woman who leaves home to travel around the American West. It was written, edited, and directed by Chloé Zhao, who earlier this month became the first Asian woman to win a Best Director Golden Globe. She is now the first first woman of color to be nominated for a Best Director Oscar. (Streaming on Hulu) Sound of Metal (Amazon Video) When drummer and former addict Ruben (Riz Ahmed) begins to lose his hearing, his girlfriend checks him into a rehab center for the deaf in a bid to prevent a relapse and ease him into a new way of life. (Streaming on Amazon Video) The Trial of the Chicago 7 (Netflix) Aaron Sorkin’s Netflix Original follows the trial of the 1968 Democratic National Convention protestors who were charged with conspiracy to incite a riot. The cast is stellar, including Sacha Baron Cohen as Abbie Hoffman. Sorkin wrote the script in 2007 for Steven Spielberg, but eventually directed it himself. (Streaming on Netflix) Minari (Rent) A family relocates from Korea to rural Arkansas in the 1980s, in search of the American dream. Steven Yeun secures a best actor nod for the film, making him the first Asian-American actor to do so. The film is in theaters, where that’s a thing, but you can rent it to stream for $19.99 from various digital stores, including Amazon. Promising Young Woman (Buy/Rent) A traumatized Cassie (Carey Mulligan) seeks revenge on men who would do women harm. Mulligan earns a best actress nod, while director Emerald Fennell is a best director contender. Promising Young Woman is available to buy across digital platforms for $19.99 or rent for $5.99. The Father (Rent) In The Father, an aging Anthony Hopkins is grappling with a decline in health, but has not yet come to terms with the severity of his situation and rejects help from his daughter (Olivia Colman). Rent it across digital platforms for $19.99. Judas and the Black Messiah (Rent) In Judas and the Black Messiah, Fred Hampton (Daniel Kaluuya), chairman of Illinois’ Black Panther Party in 1960s, is betrayed by an FBI informant, William O’Neal (Lakeith Stanfield). Kaluuya and Stanfield both earn acting nods for the movie, which had its debut on HBO Max last month. But it was only streaming until March 14, so you'll have to pay $19.99 to rent it on digital platforms for now. Actor in a Leading Role Riz Ahmed, Sound of Metal (Amazon Video) Chadwick Boseman, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (Netflix) Gary Oldman, Mank (Netflix) Steven Yeun, Minari (Rent) Anthony Hopkins, The Father (Rent) Actress in a Leading Role Viola Davis, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (Netflix) Andra Day, The United States vs. Billie Holiday (Hulu) Vanessa Kirby, Pieces of a Woman (Netflix) Frances McDormand, Nomadland (Hulu) Carey Mulligan, Promising Young Woman (Buy/Rent) Actor in a Supporting Role Sacha Baron Cohen, The Trial of the Chicago 7 (Netflix) Leslie Odom, Jr., One Night in Miami (Amazon Video) Paul Raci, Sound of Metal (Amazon Video) Daniel Kaluuya, Judas and the Black Messiah (Rent) Lakeith Stanfield, Judas and the Black Messiah (Rent) Actress in a Supporting Role Maria Bakalova, Borat Subsequent Moviefilm (Amazon Video) Glenn Close, Hillbilly Elegy (Netflix) Amanda Seyfriend, Mank (Netflix) Yuh-Jung Youn, Minari (Rent) Olivia Colman, The Father (Rent) Animated Feature Film Onward (Disney+) Over the Moon (Netflix) A Shaun the Sheep Movie: Farmageddon (Netflix) Soul (Disney+) Wolfwalkers (Apple TV+) Directing Another Round, Thomas Vinterberg (Hulu) Mank, David Fincher (Netflix) Minari, Lee Isaac Chung (Rent) Nomadland, Chloé Zhao (Hulu) Promising Young Woman, Emerald Fennell (Buy/Rent) Documentary Feature Collective (Rent/Buy) Crip Camp (Netflix) The Mole Agent (Hulu) My Octopus Teacher (Netflix) Time (Amazon Video) International Feature Film Another Round, Denmark (Hulu) Better Days, Hong Kong (Rent/Buy) Collective, Romania (Rent/Buy) Quo Vadis, Aida?, Bosnia and Herzegovina (Rent/Buy) The Man Who Sold His Skin, Tunisia (Hulu) Documentary Short Subject Some of the Oscar-nominated short films are available to watch individually, but you can also watch them all in one sitting via ShortsTV, which is selling tickets for in-person viewing, as well as streaming to virtual cinemas. Animated Short Film Burrow (Disney+) If Anything Happens I Love You (Netflix) Genius Loci (ShortsTV) Opera (ShortsTV) Yes-People (ShortsTV) Live Action Short Film