Title: 12 Exercises To Try At The Beach

Text: It doesn't get much better than working out on the beach, right? The sun on your glistening bod, the ocean breeze, the hot lifeguards cruising by... Yeah, until you try to do a plank on the sand, and realize: Exercising on the beach is stupid hard. But totally worth it! For proof, try the workout below created by Bec Donlan, fitness instructor and creator of Sweat With Bec. Grab a resistance band and get ready for the best beach workout of your life. (Trust, your booty will be FEELING it the next day.) Time: 25 minutes Equipment: Resistance band Good for: Total-body Instructions: Complete all the moves below, one after the other, for as many reps as indicated. Or, for a shorter routine, choose five exercises. Standing Single-Leg Kickback How to: Wrap a resistance band around your upper ankles, and stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, and knees slightly bent. Fold your hands, and hold them in front of your chest. Press your right leg back until it's completely extended, and lock your leg in this position for a second. Slowly, and with control, bring your leg back to the starting position. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps on each side. Pop Squat How to: Wrap a resistance band around your ankles, and stand with your feet together. Jump your feet out to the sides and lower down into a squat, as you reach your right hand to tap the ground. Be sure to keep your back flat and head up. Jump back to center. Repeat this movement, this time tapping the ground with your left hand. That's one rep. Complete 10 reps total. Banded Squat With Pulse  How to: Wrap a resistance band around your thighs, a couple inches above your knees. Stand with your feet slightly wider than hip-width apart, and point your toes outward. Sit back and drop your butt as low as possible. Once you reach the bottom of your squat, pulse twice, then return to start. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps total. Side-Step Squat How to: Wrap a resistance band around your ankles, and stand with your feet together. Take a wide step to the side, with your toes pointed out. Sit your butt back, and lower as far down as you can go. As you return to the starting position, focus on engaging your inner thighs. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps on each side. Banded Curtsy Lunge How to: Wrap a resistance band around your thighs, and stand with your feet hip-width apart, hands at your sides. Take a big step back with your right leg, crossing it behind your left. Bend your knees and lower your hips until your left thigh is nearly parallel to the floor. Keep your torso upright and your hips and shoulders as square as possible. Return to start. That’s one rep. Complete 12 on each side. Banded Kickback How to: Wrap a resistance band around the middle of your feet, and get on all fours on the sand. Extend your right leg into the air until your body forms a straight line from shoulders to knee, your right toes facing the ground. Return to start. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps on each side. Banded Kickback With Pulse How to: Wrap a resistance band around the middle of your feet, and get on all fours on the sand. Extend your leg into the air until your body forms a straight line from shoulders to knee, your right toes facing the ground. Pulse your leg a couple inches up and back down. That's one rep. Continue pulsing for 30 quick reps on each side.  Lat Pulse How to: Wrap a resistance band around your hands, and stand up straight with feet shoulder-width apart. Relax your shoulders, and hold your arms out straight in front of you. Pulse your hands outward, then back in. That's one rep. Complete 30 reps. Single-Arm Pulldown How to: Stand with your feet staggered, one in front of the other. Loop a resistance band around your left thumb, and hold the other end in your right hand. Lock your left wrist and arm in place during this move. Pull the band down with your right arm as far as you can go, then return to start. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps on each arm. Single-Leg Deadlift How to: Loop your resistance band around your right foot, and hold the other end in your right hand. Standing up straight, place your left foot six inches back, with toes pressed into the sand. Keeping your back flat, lower down until the top of the band is at mid-calf height. Then, squeezing your glutes, core, and arms, return to a standing position. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps on each side. Plank With Foot Tap How to: Wrap a resistance band around your ankles and get into a high plank position, with your wrists placed directly under your shoulders. Tap your right leg to the side, then return to start. Repeat on the right side. Be sure to maintain a strong plank the entire time. That's one rep. Complete 15 reps. Standing Obliques Crunch How to: Wrap a resistance band around the middle of your right foot, then grab the other end in your right hand. Stand up straight with your feet hip-width apart. Lift your left arm, bend your elbow, and place your hand behind your head. Slowly lower to the right side, giving in to the resistance band. Then return back to start. That's one rep. Complete 20 reps on each side. This workout was shot at the W Hotel Costa Rica during one of their Fuel Weekends fitness retreats, where Bec Donlan was a featured instructor. Video loops filmed by Karston Tannis. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io