Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Caterpillar' Dilated Pore Of Winer In Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a giant dilated pore of winer. Fans have been begging for more DPOWs, and the dermatologist delivered big time. Dr. Pimple Popper used her comedone extractor tool to press a "caterpillar" out of the giant blackhead. It's a two-way relationship with dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, and her fans. She's not only sending out satisfying pimple extractions for the Popaholics. The doc is also listening to their feedback. That's right, Dr. Pimple Popper heard fans requesting a dilated pore of winer and a satisfying one to boot in her new Instagram video. So, the derm delivered in a big way. She explained in the caption: "This is for everyone that's been asking for DPOW's in the comments! They are SO hard to come by, if you see one you better send them my way! 😈😂 #drpimplepopper #dpow" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The video shows a close-up of the patient's skin with the giant blackhead, or DPOW, clearly ready for extraction. It's a black dot, but holds so much more under the surface. Dr. Pimple Popper goes right in with her comedone extractor tool. The DPOW responds immediately with a column of mush emerging. One fan wrote, "It looks like a caterpillar when it popped out." This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. One press wasn't enough to unearth everything hidden in this patient's dilated pore of winer. Dr. Pimple Popper went back for more, and the DPOW gave up all its contents. That caterpillar keeps growing and growing. "My dream came true!✨😘" another fan commented. Others added more praise with 🙌 emojis for Dr. Pimple Popper and her excellent popping skills.  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io