Title: 13 Common Causes For Itchy Butt Rashes And Bumps, According To MDs

Text: Rashes are kind of the worst, no matter where they are on your body. But getting one on your butt? That's a whole 'nother level of misery. (Have you ever discreetly scratched a butt itch in public? No, because you can't.)  Inconvenience aside, they're also a little concerning. Sure, that little bump on your butt could just be a pimple, but what if it's a little more serious—say, a little bigger and redder and actually kind of painful? Can you treat it with an over-the-counter cream, or do you need to make an appointment with your doc? Complicating matters further: Many skin conditions present differently on light skin than they do on dark skin. And imagery of rashes—like the ones below—often feature white models and not models of color. "When the the images in the textbooks and images in the lectures aren't diverse and aren't really reflective of society and what you will see in the real world, then that bias is ingrained in medical education," says Caroline Robinson, MD, FAAD, founder and CEO of Tone Dermatology in Chicago. "The result of that is either under-diagnosis, misdiagnosis, or taking a longer time to diagnosis for our patients of color. I know that there are so many efforts ongoing to address that, but unfortunately we're not there." With that in mind, keep reading for the signs of the most common rear-end rashes, and how they may present differently depending on your skin tone. You'll also get familiar with their treatments to help you beat the itch. If the rash is: wrinkled and smudgy American Academy of Dertmatology It’s probably: cutaneous t-cell lymphoma “A lot of people miss this diagnosis. I see it all the time. They call it eczema, they call it dry skin, and it's not,” says Adam Friedman, MD, FAAD, professor of dermatology at GW School of Medicine and Health Sciences. Cutaneous t-cell lymphoma (CTL) is actually a type of skin cancer, relating to abnormal immune cells called lymphocytes. And this condition has a predilection for areas that are covered. CTL typically looks like a wrinkled, smudgy rash, and while the image above shows red-colored irritation, Dr. Robinson says that on darker skin it can present hypopigmented (lighter than the surrounding skin) or hyperpigmented (darker than the surrounding skin). While this cancer isn't super common, when not treated, Dr. Friedman says it can turn into a more serious health situation. If the rash is: itchy, shiny, and near the anus Getty Images It's probably: lichen sclerosis This one involves the perianal area. It's thought to be an autoimmune disease where the immune system is attacking the skin, thinning its top layer and thickening the bottom part where your hair follicles and sweat glands are, according to Dr. Friedman. "This condition is exquisitely itchy," he says. It's usually treated aggressively with steroids. And if left untreated the disease can easily turn into squamous cell carcinoma, another type of skin cancer. What you want to look out for is a kind of shiny lighter-colored rash in the anal area. When active, Dr. Friedman says, the edges of the rash will sometimes turn purple. Again, a biopsy is needed to diagnosis this disease, so if you're starting to see a similar rash appear, give your doc a call ASAP. If the rash is: red or hyperpigmented dry bumps Getty Images It's probably: keratosis pilaris  Never heard of it before? Don't worry, it's actually a relatively harmless rash. Go ahead and touch your butt. Do the bumps back there feel like sandpaper? If so, you might have keratosis pilaris, which is caused when excess skin grows over where a hair follicle would usually come out. People often experience keratosis pilaris on the back of their arm and thighs, but it can occur on the butt as well. (While the bumps may turn from flesh-colored to red from inflammation on light skin, they often turn hyperpigmented on dark skin.) If you think you're suffering from keratosis, head to your closest drug store. You're going to want to buy something known as a keratolytic, which is basically a kind of therapy that treats excess skin. Just make sure yours contains ingredients like urea and ammonia lactate. If the rash is: a cluster of painful or burning bumps and blisters Getty Images It’s probably: a herpes outbreak Herpes is typically thought of as something that can only affect your mouth and genitals, but it can crop up on your butt, too, says Joshua Zeichner, MD, director of cosmetic and clinical research in dermatology at Mount Sinai Hospital. (It can even find its way to your lower back, adds Dr. Robinson.) When the virus flares up—due to stress or illnesses that weaken your immune system—it can come to the surface of the skin, causing a rash, explains Dr. Zeichner. The rash will probably go away on its own in about a week, but it’s contagious through direct contact, so it's best to avoid getting too intimate. You can also try an OTC cold-sore medication or see your dermatologist for a prescription antiviral to clear up the outbreak faster, says Dr. Zeichner. If the rash is: a red or hyperpigmented circle with a lighter scaly ring around it Getty Images It’s probably: a fungal infection If you’ve ever picked up athlete’s foot (a.k.a. ringworm or tinea corporis) from your gym’s locker room, you’ve seen this fungus before—and, yeah, it can show up on your butt, too. It thrives in hot, humid environments, so working out in the summer time (or sitting around in sweaty workout clothes or steam rooms) increases your risk, says Dr. Zeichner. He recommends treating the rash ASAP with an athlete’s foot cream so it doesn’t spread; apply it twice a day for one to two weeks and see your doctor if it doesn’t go away. If the rash is: unbearably itchy and around the anus Getty Images It's probably: pinworm This is a kind of rash that would take place in your gluteal crack or perianal area. But it actually stems from an intestinal worm infection. “The worm comes out of the anus and implants eggs into skin folds," Dr. Friedman says—and this causes severe itch. In order to find out if you have a pinworm, a dermatologist would take tape, put it on your perianal area, and pull it off. What's left on the tape will be examined using a microscope—and that's where they'll be able to see the pinworms and treat you with an anti-parasite medication.  If the rash is: red or hyperpigmented with tender, pimple-like bumps Getty Images It’s probably: folliculitis Most people call this “butt acne,” but that's not entirely accurate, says Dr. Zeichner. Those pimple-like bumps are actually superficial infections of the hair follicles—otherwise known as folliculitis. Mild cases may be helped by washing with antibacterial soap. For recurring cases, Dr. Zeichner recommends washing with a surgical-grade cleanser like Hibiclens or an acne-treatment wash with benzoyl peroxide. To prevent future outbreaks, keep the skin clean and dry (especially after workouts) and wear breathable fabrics. If the rash is: itchy with potentially pus-filled bumps It's probably: a yeast infection Most people consider yeast infections strictly vaginal. But this type of infection can occur in skin folds on the body (like the butt!). What people don't understand is that yeast is not the problem itself. "We have yeast everywhere, as it's part of our microbiome," Dr. Friedman says. What's actually happening is that people are experiencing intertrigo or irritant dermatitis, inflammation of the skin in skin folds caused by poor hygiene and friction. Yeast (which is a fungus) may overgrow in the inflamed area, leading to infection. Watch for itchiness on your butt, closer to your perianal area. You might see satellite pustules, or small pus-filled bumps situated slightly away from the main rash area. As far as treatment goes, OTC ointments or creams for yeast infections should do the trick. If the rash is: plaques covered in scales and located inside your butt crack Getty Images It’s probably: psoriasis In this chronic (and often genetic) condition, your body’s immune system “gets angry and attacks the skin,” says Dr. Zeichner. Psoriasis usually shows up on elbows and knees, but in between the butt cheeks is a common spot, too. "In the textbooks it is described as this 'salmon pink color,' and this is one of the reasons why psoriasis is under diagnosed in patients of color—I imagine because everyone is looking for that salmon and it's not there," says Dr. Robinson. "On patients of color it can often look slightly violet. Less often it's hyperpigmented or hypopigmented." You can treat psoriasis with a 1 percent hydrocortisone cream, but prolonged use can damage your skin. If it’s not going away, check in with your doctor for a prescription-strength anti-inflammatory cream. If the rash is: patchy and itchy, sometimes with tiny bumps Getty Images It’s probably: eczema Eczema is an inflammatory skin condition that causes skin to dry out and crack—often caused by genetics, irritants, or allergies. These microscopic cracks develop in the outer layer of skin, so the key to treatment is hydrating and repairing the skin barrier with moisturizers and anti-inflammatory creams, according to Dr. Zeichner. Eczema on your butt may be caused by irritating fabrics, detergents, toilet paper, or cleansing wipes, so be mindful of what’s coming into contact with your skin back there. The severity of eczema is typically under-diagnosed in people of color because, again, redness isn't a common symptom in dark skin, yet docs have been trained to monitor the level of redness to make treatment recommendations. If the rash is: super itchy and on your anus Getty Images It’s probably: hemorrhoids Straining during bowel movements (thanks, chronic constipation or pregnancy) causes hemorrhoids, which are swollen and dilated blood vessels around your anus. These protrusions are itchy, painful, and hard to ignore. They’re pretty common and can be treated with OTC hemorrhoid ointments, but Dr. Zeichner recommends getting medical attention (or a GI evaluation) if they’re causing you to bleed during bowel movements—that's something you never want to ignore. If the rash is: itchy with acne-like bumps This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. It's probably: miliaria (a.k.a. heat rash) Heat rash occurs when sweat-duct openings become blocked, which can happen when wearing tight-fitting clothing that traps in sweat and bacteria. The resulting bumps are typically flesh-colored on darker skin and red on lighter skin, says Dr. Robinson. "That trapping results in an inflammatory response," Dr. Friedman says. But don't worry, heat rashes are easily treatable with a little OTC medication. Dr. Friedman recommends antibacterial washes or acne washes that contain benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid. Pro tip: benzoyl peroxide can stain, so be careful when applying. If the rash is: swollen and sometimes watery -aniaostudio- Getty Images It's probably: an allergic reaction Unlike a heat rash (which is often caused by irritation), other rashes are sparked by allergic reactions. Here's how to spot the difference: Irritant rashes are often itchy and they hurt like crazy, Dr. Friedman says. The bumps will appear raised and tend to be a darker pink to red color on light skin and hyperpigmented on dark skin. Rashes caused by an allergic reaction are often times more swollen, pink in light skin or hyperpigmented in dark skin, and maybe even watery. Head to your doctor's office if you're unsure what you're dealing with so they can provide the proper treatment or medication. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io