Title: Miley Cyrus Asked Shawn Mendes And Camila Cabello To Have A ‘Three Way’

Text: Miley Cyrus just asked Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello to Have a “three way.” Miley made her request by commenting on one of Shawn’s TikTok videos. Would it be quarantine if Miley Cyrus weren’t making headlines because of her comments on TikTok? Cyrus, staying in character, recently saw a video of Shawn Mendes and his girlfriend, Camila Cabello, singing her song, “The Climb.” For those not well-versed in Miley canon, the 2009 song is from Hannah Montana: The Movie and is a nostalgic bop. Anyway, back to the point: Cyrus made an eyebrow-raising request after Mendes posted the video to his TikTok account. “Let’s have a three way,” Cyrus wrote. Yep, that’s it. No other context. It’s just Miley wanting to hook up with Mendes and Cabello, which, like, who doesn’t? But, since she’s Miley Cyrus, she actually decided to write it... on the internet... for all to see. Of course, Comments By Celebs captured it and shared it with their 1.6 million followers with the caption, “Hard yes.” This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Earlier this month, Cyrus commented on fans who told their TikTok followers that they'd get married if Miley Cyrus commented on a video of them dancing and kissing. (This was just one video in the trend of fans promising to do something if Cyrus commented on their TikTok video.) Cyrus wrote the epic reply: "Hope it goes better for you two than it did for me," with an engagement ring, a skull, a black heart emoji, and a "congrats." She was obviously referring to her divorce from long-term boyfriend Liam Hemsworth. The shade! So, I'm not surprised that Cyrus was so bold toward Mendes and Cabello. And honestly, what does she have to lose? Stranger things have happened in 2020. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io