Title: Oscars 2021: How to watch or stream the winners, from Nomadland to Minari

Text: Enlarge Image Focus Features The 2021 Oscars results are in, and Nomadland deservedly won best picture. Here's how you can watch it and the other winners and nominees from the 93rd Academy Awards. The ceremony also made history: Nomadland director Chloé Zhao was the first woman of color to win best director. Below you'll find how to stream the winners and nominees like Emerald Fennell's scathing revenge thriller Promising Young Woman or the heartwarming Minari. Streaming services Amazon Prime Video, Netflix and Hulu, as well as video-on-demand options, are the places to go. Read more: The full list of 2021 Oscar winners full list | The full list of 2021 Oscar nominations How to watch the 2021 Oscars best picture nominees at home Free for Netflix subscribers Netflix David Fincher joins the growing list of illustrious directors making their films with the help of Netflix. Mank, a biopic celebrating unsung screenwriter Herman J. Mankiewicz, who helped Orson Welles write Citizen Kane, leads this year's Oscar nominations with 10. You can stream it on Netflix now, with the basic package starting at $9 a month. Netflix Aaron Sorkin writes and directs this drama based on the true story of anti-Vietnam War protestors who became known as the Chicago Seven. It's evocatively brought to life by a hefty ensemble cast, including Sacha Baron Cohen, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II and Joseph Gordon-Levitt. You can stream it now on Netflix, with the basic package starting at $9 a month. Free for Amazon Prime subscribers Amazon Studios Sound of Metal follows a hard rock dummer who loses his hearing and struggles to settle into a new life in the deaf community. The film, which features brilliant sound design, showcases Riz Ahmed's great talent and rightly saw him nominated for best actor. Stream it now on Prime Video, which costs $9 a month. Free for Hulu subscribers Cortesía de TIFF Nomadland has been sweeping awards at film festivals and unsurprisingly won best picture. If you can't get out to a cinema (it was released on Feb. 19), watch it at home now on Hulu. Hulu costs $6 a month (with a few ads) and has a wealth of other TV shows and a growing film slate to make it worth your buck. Outside the US, you can catch Nomadland now through Star on Disney Plus. Rent or buy on-demand Amazon Minari stars Steven Yeun in a sensitive and authentic portrait of a family of South Korean immigrants trying to assimilate to life in 1980s rural America. You can rent it now on video-on-demand, from Apple TV, Amazon, Google Play, YouTube and more. Focus Features Carey Mulligan stars in this provocative black comedy thriller, about, yes, a promising young woman who drops out of medical school. The reason? To avenge her best friend, who was a victim of rape. You can buy or rent Promising Young Woman now on video on demand, from Amazon, Google Play, YouTube and more. Not yet available at home The Father Sony The Father's heart-breaking portrayal of dementia is brought to life with the help of two greats in Olivia Colman and Anthony Hopkins, who both scored acting nominations at this year's Oscars. The film came out in theaters on March 12 and you can buy it on premium video on demand from March 26, from services like Amazon, Apple TV, Google Play and more. Judas and the Black Messiah This powerful biopic follows Black Panther chairman Fred Hampton and the FBI informant who betrayed him. Judas and the Black Messiah has been out in theaters since Feb. 12. It was available on HBO Max as part of Warner Bros.' simultaneous theater and streaming release plan, but unfortunately the one-month window to stream it on HBO Max has just closed. Catch it in a cinema if you can, but you can also rent it now from platforms like Amazon Prime Video, Google Play and YouTube. Read more: Oscars predictions: Who will win this year's big awards