Title: 100 Healthy Dinner Recipes To Lose Weight

Text: If one of your goals is to cook more (and healthier) at home to stick to your weight-loss efforts, you'll want to set yourself up for success. A key part of that is making sure you've got an arsenal of new healthy dinner recipes to whip up, that are *also* delicious. It can feel damn near torturous to put together something nutritious and flavorful after a long day of work. But once you have a meal-planning playbook, your dinner game is going to improve. Also, you won't be tempted to order takeout if you already have a yummy, weight loss-friendly meal prepped and ready to go.  It can be hard to find meals that meet all of those needs and are also lower in calories to help you stay in a calorie deficit (aka eating less calories than you're burning) to meet your weight loss goals. Luckily, these 100 healthy dinner recipes for weight loss each have 500 calories or less, and will leave you satisfied enough to stave off cravings until breakfast. You can even create a healthy, weight-loss meal plan for the week by picking out seven of these recipes. Eating healthy after 5 p.m. just got so much easier. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. 1. Slow Cooker Seafood Ramen Fit Slow Cooker Queen Ingredients: 64 oz broth (seafood, vegetable, or chicken 4–6 oz ramen 1 lb seafood 2 green onions, sliced 2 tbsp low-sodium soy sauce 2 tbsp rice vinegar 2 garlic cloves, minced 1/4 cup kale, chopped 1/2 lb tomatoes, sliced 1/4 tsp sesame oil 1 tsp salt 1/4 tsp pepper 1/8 tsp red pepper flakes Directions: Add all ingredients except the seafood, kale and ramen to the slow cooker. Stir to mix well. Cook on high for 2-3 hours, or low for 4-6 hours. Add seafood, kale & ramen and cook for an additional 15-30 minutes. Per Serving: 250 calories, 2.7 g fat (0.3 g sat), 29.5 g protein, 27 g carb, 2588.3 mg sodium, 3.9 g sugars, 1.7 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Fit Slow Cooker Queen . 2. Turkey Carrot Mushroom Dumplings Jeanette's Healthy Living Ingredients: 3/4 c. carrots finely julienned 1 lb ground turkey 1/2 c. mushrooms finely chopped 2 tsp soy sauce 1 tsp rice wine 1 tsp sesame oil 1/2 tsp onion powder 1/8 tsp salt 2 tsp cornstarch 30 dumpling wrappers Directions: Put carrots in a microwavable bowl and cover with water. Cook until tender, about 3 minutes depending on how finely shredded the carrots are. Drain and let cool. In a large bowl, mix together cooked carrots, turkey, mushrooms, soy sauce, rice wine, sesame oil, onion powder, salt and cornstarch. Stir together until well combined. Spoon a well rounded teaspoon of filling onto a dumpling wrapper. Seal filling with wrapper. Wrap remaining dumplings. Bring water to boil in the bottom of the steamer pot. Place dumplings in a parchment paper lined steamer. Steam 15 minutes until cooked through. Per serving: 48 calories, 1 g fat (0 g sat), 3 g protein, 4 g carb, 87 mg sodium Recipe courtesy of Jeanette’s Healthy Living . ➡ Join WH Stronger today and get unlimited access to digital content, exclusive workouts, and more! 3. Slow Grilled Chinese Char Siu Chicken Jeanette's Healthy Living Ingredients: 1/4 c. organic brown sugar 1/4 c. raw honey 1/4 c. organic ketchup 1/4 c. gluten-free soy sauce 3 Tbsp beet powder 2 Tbsp rice vinegar 1 Tbsp gluten-free hoisin sauce 1/2 tsp Chinese five-spice powder Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 1/2 lbs boneless skinless chicken thighs Cooking oil spray Directions: In a large bowl, mix together brown sugar, honey, ketchup, soy sauce, beet powder, vinegar, hoisin sauce, five-spice powder, salt and pepper. Add chicken and toss well, coating all the pieces well; cover and refrigerate for two days to marinate. Heat grill; spray cooking oil on grates; grill chicken until cooked through, about 10 minutes per side. Per serving: 328 calories, 8 g fat (2 g sat), 38 g protein, 25 g carb, 845 mg sodium, 24 g sugars, 1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Jeanette’s Healthy Living . 4. Creamy Kabocha Squash and Roasted Red Pepper Pasta Sweet Simple Vegan Ingredients: 1/2 c. raw cashews 1 small kabocha squash 1 head of garlic 1/3 cauliflower, cut into large florets 1/2 medium onion (roughly chopped) 1 stalk celery, roughly chopped 1 medium carrot, roughly chopped 1/4 c. roasted red peppers, drained 2 Tbsp nutritional yeast Optional: A pinch red pepper flakes 2 to 3 c. vegetable broth (or as needed) Salt and black pepper, to taste 1/2 to 3/4 c. fresh basil (unpacked), sliced 2 lb gluten-free spaghetti noodles (or pasta of your choice) Serve with: Vegan parmesan cheese (optional) Fresh basil, sliced Black pepper Directions: Soak the cashews in water overnight. If you do not have time to, you can also bring a small pot of water to a boil, remove it from heat and add in the cashews. Allow them to soak until you blend the sauce together (which will be about 1 hour). Preheat the oven to 400°F and position the rack to the middle of the oven. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone mat. Wash and dry the kabocha squash, place it (whole) on the baking sheet and into the oven for 18-20 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and cool until the squash is easy to handle. If the stem of it is protruding, use a knife to carefully remove it. Slice the squash in half vertically, then scoop out the seeds and fiber using a spoon. Slice the squash into 1-inch wedges, trying to keep the slices uniform for even cooking. Place 6 or 7 the slices of the cooked squash (roughly 1 1/2 cups) onto your lined baking sheet. The remaining kabocha squash can be cooked on an additional baking sheet with the same baking time and directions below. It can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for up to a week. Using your hands, remove loose skin from the outside of the head of garlic. With a sharp knife, cut 1/4“-inch off the top of the garlic, or enough to expose the tops of the cloves. Place the garlic head (cut side down) onto the baking sheet along with the cauliflower florets, onions, celery, and carrots. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place back into the oven for 40 minutes, flipping/mixing halfway through. 10 minutes before the vegetables are done, prepare the pasta. Once you have removed the baking sheet from the oven, allow the veggies to cool until easily handled and then use a knife to carefully remove the skin from the kabocha and add it into a high speed blender. You can discard this or snack on it as you continue cooking. Using you hands, squeeze the soften garlic cloves out of the head and into the blender, along with the soaked cashews (drained), the remaining vegetables on the baking sheet, the roasted red peppers, nutritional yeast, red pepper flakes, 2 cups of vegetable broth plus salt and pepper as desired. Blend until smooth, adding as much of the additional 1 cup of vegetable broth as needed to thin out the sauce. Adjust seasonings to taste and then add in the sliced basil. Pulse the basil in until well combined (do not blend it as it will turn the sauce a weird color). Drain the pasta, add it back into the pot and pour over the sauce. Mix until well combined. Serve with a sprinkle of fresh parmesan, basil and black pepper. Enjoy! Per serving: 501 calories, 5.9 g fat (0 g sat), 17.8 g protein, 93.4 g carb, 56.3 mg sodium, 5.8 g sugars Recipe courtesy of Sweet Simple Vegan . 5. Loaded Cauliflower Dr. Davinah's Eats Ingredients: 1.25 lb cauliflower head, cut into florets 6 green onion, chopped into the green and white parts 2 tbsp butter 3 garlic cloves, minced 2 oz cream cheese 1/2 tsp sea salt 1/4 tsp black pepper 1.5 tsp ranch seasoning Mix, optional 3/4 c. organic heavy whipping cream 2 c. cheddar cheese, grated 4 slices sugar-free bacon, crumbled Olive oil for roasting the cauliflower Dollops of sour cream, optional Directions: Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Toss the cauliflower with ~2 Tbsp of olive oil then add it to a baking sheet. Roast the cauliflower on a baking sheet for 25 minutes. The cauliflower will get tender and some parts will brown up. While the cauliflower is roasting, make the cheese sauce: Add butter, the white parts of the green onions, and the garlic cloves to a skillet on medium heat. Sauté until the onions are translucent (~3 minutes). Add heavy cream, cream cheese, salt, ranch seasoning (if you’re using it), and pepper to the skillet with the onions, garlic and butter. Turn the heat to medium low and continue to cook until the cream cheese is melted. Stir in 1.5 cups of the cheddar cheese to finish the cheese sauce. Mix the cheese sauce and the roasted cauliflower, then add it to a baking dish. Top it with the remaining cheddar cheese and roast for an additional 20 minutes, or until the cauliflower is tender. Top the baked cauliflower, with some dollops of sour cream, the green parts of the green onions, and the crumbled bacon. Per serving: 315 calories, 28 g fat (17 g sat), 11 g protein, 5 g carb, 587 mg sodium, 2 g sugars, 1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Dr. Davinah’s Eats . 6. Easy Creamy Cajun Shrimp Pasta Stay Snatched Ingredients: 8 oz linguine pasta 2 tsp olive oil Divided into 1 teaspoon servings. 1 lb raw shrimp, deveined and shells removed. 1 Tbsp cajun seasoning divided into 1/2 Tbsp servings. You can also use creole seasoning. 4 oz andouille sausage Sliced into 1 inch pieces. You can use more if you like. 1/2 c. chopped red peppers 1/2 c. chopped green peppers 1/2 c. chopped yellow or white onions 1 c. fire roasted diced tomatoes Drained from a can. 1 Tbsp butter 1/2 c. heavy whipping cream 1/2 c. unsweetened almond milk 4 oz cream cheese Cut into chunks. 1/2 c. shredded Parmesan Reggiano Cheese Directions: Cook the pasta as per package instructions. Place the shrimp in a bowl along with 1/2 Tbsp of cajun or creole seasoning. Mix to ensure the shrimp is fully coated. Heat a skillet or pan on medium high heat. I use a cast iron skillet. Add 1 teaspoon of olive oil to the pan. When hot, add the shrimp to the pan. Cook for 2-3 minutes on each side until it turns bright pink. Remove the shrimp and set aside. Add an additional teaspoon of olive oil to the pan along with the chopped sausage, onions, green peppers, and red peppers. Saute for 3-4 minutes until the vegetables are soft and the onions are translucent and fragrant. Remove the vegetables from the pan and set aside. Reduce the heat on the pan to medium. Add the butter to the pan and allow it to melt. Add in the heavy cream, almond milk, cream cheese, the remaining 1/2 tablespoon of cajun or creole seasoning, and parmesan reggiano cheese. Continue to stir the sauce until all of the cheese has fully melted. The cream cheese may take some time to melt. Add in the fire roasted tomatoes and stir. Allow the mixture to cook for 2 minutes. Add the shrimp, sausage, vegetables, and pasta to the pan and stir. Allow the pasta to cook for 4-5 minutes until combined. Serve. Per serving: 384 calories, 28 g fat, 7 g protein, 22 g carb Recipe courtesy of Stay Snatched . 7. Healthy Chicken Taco Soup All The Healthy Things Ingredients: ½ Tbsp avocado or coconut oil 1 small yellow onion, diced 1 small red bell pepper, diced 1 small green bell pepper, diced 5 cloves garlic, minced 1 lb boneless, skinless chicken breast 1 1/2 tsp salt (plus more to taste) 1 tsp dried oregano 1 tsp chipotle powder 1 tsp paprika 2 tsp cumin ¼ tsp black pepper 1 – 15 oz can fire roasted diced tomatoes 2 – 4.5 oz cans green chilies ¼ c. fresh lime juice 32 oz chicken broth Cilantro, for serving Diced red onion, for serving Lime wedges, for serving Directions: Heat a large pot over medium-high heat. Once hot, add in the avocado or coconut oil. Next, add the peppers, onion, and garlic to the pot. Saute for 3-4 minutes until the onions start to become translucent. Add the chicken breast, canned tomatoes, canned green chilies, spices, lime juice, and chicken broth to the pot. Stir until well combined. Bring the soup to a rolling boil and then reduce the heat to a simmer. Allow the soup to simmer for 30 minutes or until the chicken is tender and easy to shred. Transfer the chicken breast from the soup to a small bowl. Use two forks to shred the meat. Add the chicken back to the soup and stir until well combined. Serve the soup with fresh cilantro, diced red onion, and fresh lime wedges. Enjoy! Per serving: 258 calories, 6.1 g fat (1 g sat), 30 g protein, 22.7 g carb, 1960.9 mg sodium, 10.1 g sugars, 5.1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of All The Healthy Things . 8. Quick and Easy Mongolian Beef My Forking Life Ingredients: 1 lb flank steak thinly sliced against the grain 2 Tbsp cornstarch 2-4 Tbsp canola oil 1 yellow onion sliced 2 green onions chopped, green and white parts separated 4 garlic cloves chopped 1- inch ginger chopped ¼ c. low sodium soy sauce ¼ c. water 1 Tbsp hoisin sauce 3 Tbsp brown sugar Salt to taste Directions: Cover the flank steak with cornstarch, making sure each piece is covered. Set aside. Heat the canola oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Once the oil is hot, add the flank steak to the frying pan in a single layer, making sure that the pieces are not touching. Cook for 1-2 minutes per side until each side is browned. Cook in batches until all the flank steak is cooked. Set aside. Add sliced yellow onion, whites of green onions, garlic, and ginger to the skillet and stir fry for about 3 minutes, until the onions are slightly softened but still have a little crunch. Add soy sauce, water, hoisin sauce, and brown sugar and stir. Add steak back to the pan along with the green parts of the onions. Remove from heat and serve. Per serving: 303 calories, 13 g fat (3 g sat), 26 g protein, 20 g carb, 670 mg sodium, 11 g sugars, 1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of My Forking Life . 9. Caribbean Steamed Fish Jehan Can Cook Ingredients: 2 lbs fish (porgy or snapper), cleaned and scaled Juice of 1 lime ½ tsp black pepper 1 tsp salt 3 cloves garlic – 2 sliced and 1 crushed About 15 sprigs thyme ½ Tbsp butter ½ Tbsp oil 2 carrots, thinly sliced 1 red pepper, thinly sliced 1 green pepper, thinly sliced 1 onion, thinly sliced 12 okra, ends cut off 1 hot pepper (scotch bonnet, habanero or wiri wiri), seeds removed 1 ½ cup water Directions: Season the fish with lime juice, crushed garlic, black pepper, salt and half of the thyme and set aside. In a large, wide heavy bottom pot over medium heat, add oil and butter. When butter has melted, sauté carrots, red and green pepper, and onion until it has softened, about 5 minutes. Add garlic slices and pepper and cook for just a minute or two. Add water and bring to a boil. Add fish to the pot. Spoon some of the vegetables on top of the fish. Add okra and the rest of the thyme. Cover the pot and lower the heat to simmer then cook for 15 minutes until the fish is done. Remove from heat and serve. Per serving: 378 calories, 7.4 g fat (1.2 g sat), 60.5 g protein, 13.1 g carb, 794 mg sodium, 5.5 g sugars, 3.3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Jehan Can Cook . 10. Corn Chowder Con Chile Poblano Brown Sugar & Vanilla Ingredients: 2 Tbsp vegetable oil 1 poblano pepper without seeds and thinly sliced 1 medium onion sliced 2 cloves of garlic roughly chopped 5 corn husks 4 medium potatoes cubed 1 tsp of salt To serve: Corn kernels Pumpkin seeds Cilantro microgreens or chopped cilantro Olive oil Freshly ground pepper Directions: In a large pot add the oil and the sliced poblano chile. Leave it there until it begins to soften. Add the onion and garlic. Leave for five more minutes or until you see that the onion is translucent. Add the corn kernels, potatoes, salt and cover with water, add the salt and cover. Leave for 10-15 minutes or until the vegetables are cooked. With a ladle, add about one-third of the vegetables and liquid into the container of a blender. Blend until fully liquefied and well integrated. Return to the pot with the rest of the vegetables. If you need more liquid, add a little more water. Check for seasoning and adjust if necessary. Serve with a drizzle of olive oil, pumpkin seeds, corn kernels, sprouts or chopped cilantro. Finish with sea salt and pepper. Per serving: 135 calories, 4 g fat (3 g sat), 4 g protein, 20 g carb, 403 mg sodium, 1 g sugars, 4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Brown Sugar & Vanilla . 11. Crispy Potato Tacos Brown Sugar & Vanilla Ingredients: 12 corn tortillas 1 c. mashed potatoes 4 Tbsp of vegetable oil or avocado oil 4 long wooden skewers To serve: Thinly sliced romaine lettuce or green cabbage Radishes thinly sliced Cilantro Guacamole Salsa verde Directions: Heat tortillas on a skillet for 10-15 seconds to make them pliable. Put a spoonful of mashed potatoes in the center of each tortilla and spread it along the tortilla. Roll the tortilla and put it on a long skewer. Repeat until you put three or four tacos on the skewer. Repeat with all the tortillas. In a frying pan over high heat put a tablespoon of oil and put three or four tacos, leave until golden brown, three to five minutes, turn and brown on the other side. Take out the tacos and put in a dish with a paper towel to absorb the excess oil. Repeat until all the tacos are done. To serve, put the crispy potato tacos on a plate and finish with the toppings. Enjoy immediately. Per serving: 347 calories, 16 g fat (2 g sat), 6 g protein, 47 g carb, 51 mg sodium, 1 g sugars, 6 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Brown Sugar & Vanilla . 12. Black Garlic, Sesame and Shitake Cod Cooking With Brooks Ingredients: 2 Alaskan Cod filets, frozen 1 clove black garlic 2 Tbsp olive oil 1 tsp sesame seeds 1/2 c. dried shiitake, rehydrated Directions: Preheat your oven to 450F. Rinse frozen fish, pat dry with a paper towel, and place on a non-stick pan. In a small bowl, place black garlic and warm in the microwave for 10 seconds. Mash the garlic clove and add olive oil and sesame seeds. Brush this mixture on frozen filets and sprinkle the mushrooms around the fish. Place in the oven for 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. If your filets are on the thick side, flip halfway through cooking. Serve alongside rice, your favorite salad, or whole grain. Per serving: 241 calories, 15.8 g fat (2.1 g sat), 20.9 g protein, 6.1 g carb, 72 mg sodium, 1.3 g sugars, 1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Cooking With Books . 13. Shrimp Lettuce Wraps Muy Delish Ingredients: 1 head butter lettuce or romaine lettuce hearts ¼ c. low-sodium chicken broth 1 Tbsp hoisin sauce ½ Tbsp low-sodium soy sauce 1 tsp rice vinegar ¼ tsp Asian sesame oil 1 1/2 tsp chili garlic sauce ½ tsp cornstarch 1 Tbsp canola or avocado oil divided 30 grams cashews little less than ¼ cup, coarsely chopped 6 oz shrimp deveined & cut into small cubes 1 large garlic clove minced 1/2 large red bell pepper seeded and diced 3 green onions the white and green parts, sliced ⅛ c. chopped cilantro 1 carrot shredded or cut into thin strips Directions: Divide the lettuce into leaves and set aside. In a small bowl, whisk together the chicken broth, hoisin sauce, soy sauce, rice vinegar, sesame oil, chili garlic sauce, and cornstarch. Set aside. In a medium skillet, heat ½ Tbsp canola or avocado oil over medium-high heat until almost smoking. Add the shrimp and stir-fry until browned. About 2 minutes. Transfer the shrimp to a plate and discard any juices from the pan. In the same skillet, heat the other ½ tablespoon of oil over medium-high heat. Add the garlic, bell pepper, green onions, and carrots. Stir fry until tender-crisp, about 2 minutes. Return the shrimp to the pan and add the cashews and cilantro. Add the soy-sauce mixture and stir-fry until the shrimp is thoroughly cooked. About 3 minutes. Spoon the shrimp mixture evenly onto lettuce leaves. Per serving: 269 calories, 14 g fat (2 g sat), 26 g protein, 17 g carb, 753 mg sodium, 7 g sugars, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Muy Delish . 14. Baked Salmon Cake Balls With Rosemary Aioli Orchids + Sweet Tea Ingredients: 2 lbs wild salmon fillets 1 tsp sea salt 1 tsp black pepper 1/2 medium purple onion, chopped 1/2 c. organic spinach, chopped 1/2 red bell pepper, diced 1/2 yellow red pepper, diced 1 small jalapeño, diced 2/3 c. breadcrumbs 1-2 Tbsps Old Bay seasoning 1/2 c. fresh parsley, chopped 1/3 c. vegan Mayo 1/2 c. dijon mustard 1 large organic egg, room temp. 4 Tbsps lemon juice 1-2 Tbsps sriracha sauce 1/2 c. vegan mayo 4 tsp lemon juice 2 garlic cloves, crushed + minced 1/4 tsp sea salt 2 sprigs fresh rosemary, chopped Directions: First, preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Season salmon with sea salt + black pepper and roast on a baking sheet (lined with parchment paper) for about 20 minutes, or until cooked through. Once cooked, remove from the oven and set aside while it cools for 5 minutes before shredding or flaking into medium chunks. Meanwhile, add onions, bell peppers, jalapeños, spinach, old bay seasoning, breadcrumbs, parsley, mayo, dijon mustard, egg, sriracha and lemon juice to a large bowl. Then add shredded salmon and mix all ingredients together, using your hands. Scoop about 2 Tbsps of batter and form into a ball with your hands and line on a baking sheet (lined with parchment paper). Repeat until all batter is used. Bake salmon balls for 15-20 minutes, or until slightly crisp and golden brown. Combine vegan mayo, lemon juice, garlic cloves, sea salt, and rosemary in a medium bowl and whisk together thoroughly. Refrigerate for aioli until ready to use. Per serving: 173 calories, 6.7 g fat (1.6 g sat), 20.5 g protein, 8.6 g carb, 6011 mg sodium, 3.3 g sugars, 1.2 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Orchids + Sweet Tea . 15. Crispy Baked Falafel Food Heaven Made Easy Ingredients: 1 c. dried chickpeas, soaked in water overnight 1/2 c. fresh parsley 1/2 medium onion chopped 3 garlic cloves chopped 1 tsp cumin 1 tsp coriander 1/4 tsp black pepper 1 tsp salt 1/4 c. vegetable oil Directions: Preheat the oven to 400F. Once the chickpeas are done soaking, drain them and rinse with fresh water. Add the soaked chickpeas, parsley, onion, garlic, spices, pepper and salt to a food processor. Pulse a few times, until you have a consistent, coarse texture. Create 10-12 small falafel balls with your hands. In a medium pan, heat the vegetable oil on the stovetop, and add the falafel balls. I recommend you do this in 2 batches. Cook the falafel balls in the oil for 2 minutes on each side, using a spatula to carefully flip over. Once done, add them to a parchment paper-lined baking dish. Once all the falafels are cooked on the pan and added to the baking dish, drizzle the remaining oil from the pan onto the falafels, and bake for 20 minutes or until browned and crisp. Flip halfway with a spatula. Enjoy with pita, greens, rice, or your favorite pairings. Per serving: 128 calories, 6.7 g fat (1.2 g sat), 4.1 g protein, 13 g carb, 261 mg sodium, 2.4 g sugars, 3.7 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Food Heaven Made Easy . 16. Easy Vegetable Stirfry With Peanut Sauce Sweet Simple Vegan Ingredients: Peanut Sauce: 1 Tbsp sesame oil 1/2 tsp ground ginger (1 tbsp fresh) 1/4 tsp garlic powder (2 cloves) 1/2 c. smooth unsweetened peanut butter 3 Tbsp low sodium soy sauce 2 Tbsp freshly squeezed lime juice 2 Tbsp maple syrup 2 Tbsp fresh lime juice 1 Tbsp rice vinegar 1/4 cc-1/3 cc water as needed Optional: Sriracha, to taste Stirfy: 6 oz dried noodles of choice (see notes) 1 Tbsp cooking oil of choice 3 cloves garlic, finely minced 2 Tbsp green onions sliced 1 Tbsp freshly grated ginger 1/3 c. shredded red cabbage 4 oz crimini mushrooms, sliced 1 medium carrot, thinly sliced 1 medium red bell pepper, thinly sliced 1 c. broccoli 2 large handfuls fresh baby spinach Garnish: Cilantro, finely chopped Green onions, sliced Toasted sesame seeds or crushed peanuts 1 large lime, sliced Directions: Prepare the peanut sauce: In a small pot over medium-low, add in the sesame oil, garlic and ginger. Cook until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Add in the remaining ingredients for the peanut sauce and whisk together until uniform. Allow the mixture to come to a low simmer and then remove from heat and set aside. Prepare the noodles according to the package directions. Once the noodles are cooked, drain them, rinse under cold water, add them back into the cooking pot and toss them with about 1 teaspoon of sesame oil to prevent sticking. In the meantime, set a large wok over medium heat. Add in the cooking oil along with the garlic, green onions and ginger. Sauté, stirring often, for 3 minutes or until fragrant. Next add in the cabbage, mushrooms, carrots, bell pepper and broccoli. Cook for an additional 4 minutes. Once the vegetables have cooked, add in the spinach, peanut sauce and cooked noodles. Mix until everything is well combined and cook for 1-2 minutes more, or until everything is warmed through. Serve with a garnish of cilantro, green and toasted sesame seeds, plus an extra wedge of lime on the side. Enjoy! Per serving: 388 calories, 19.7 g fat, 8.7 g protein, 47 g carb, 294.5 mg sodium, 11.6 g sugars Recipe courtesy of Sweet Simple Vegan . 17. Grilled Chicken and Vegetable Shish Kebabs Dude that Cookz Ingredients: 2 Tbsp Better Than Bouillon roasted chicken base 2 lb boneless chicken breasts 8 oz cubed pineapples 1 red bell pepper 1 green bell pepper 1 orange bell pepper 1 whole zucchini 2 tsp oregano 2 tsp black pepper 2 tsp paprika For the teriyaki pineapple sauce: 1/2 c. low-sodium soy sauce 2 tsp minced garlic 2 tsp Sesame Oil 2 Tbsp fresh pineapple juice 2 tsp cornstarch 1 tsp black pepper 1/4 tsp Himalayan salt 1/4 tsp garlic powder 2 Tbsp brown sugar Directions: Begin by starting your fire on the grill and allow the temperature to reach 350 degrees. Cut your chicken breast into cubes and place into a large bowl. Season chicken with oregano, black pepper and paprika then rub ingredients into the chicken. Add Better Than Bouillon roasted chicken base to the chicken. Mix together well then set to the side. Remove the stem and seeds from each of the bell peppers and cut into large pieces. Chop the zucchini into slices. Place each ingredient individually onto the skewers in desired order. Place each chicken and veggie skewer onto the grill. Grill for 4 minutes each side. Remove from heat. For the sauce, add all ingredients into a small cooking pan on medium/high heat until it begins to bubble then lower heat to simmer and cook for 8 minutes and remove from heat and allow to cool. Serve immediately. Per serving: 408 calories, 6 g fat (0.4 g sat), 56.7 g protein, 34 g carb, 1278 mg sodium, 24.2 g sugars, 3.9 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Dude That Cookz . 18. Vegan Chorizo Tostadas Brown Sugar & Vanilla Ingredients: 4 c. of shaved Brussels sprouts 2 Tbsp of vegetable oil 2 Tbsp of chili powder ground dried chili powder 1 tsp of garlic powder 1 / 2 tsp of ground cumin 1 / 4 tsp freshly pepper 1 / 8 tsp ground cinnamon Pinch of ground cloves 1 / 2 tsp apple cider vinegar 1 / 2 tsp salt 12 corn tostada shells 1 c. refried beans 1 avocado sliced Mexican crema (I use cashew cream) Directions: In a skillet over medium heat add the oil and the shaved Brussels sprouts. Leave them until they are soft, like 3 minutes. Add all the species and mix well. Leave everything for 5 more minutes or until the Brussel sprouts begin to brown on the edges. Be careful not to burn them. When ready, remove from heat and add the vinegar. Mix and set aside. For putting together the tostadas add 2 tablespoons of refried black beans and spread them well throughout the tostada. Then add three or four tablespoons of the powerful vegan chorizo, aka, the Brussel sprouts with Mexican spices. Finish each tostada with slices of avocado and drizzle with cashew or tofu crema. Per serving: 268 calories, 11 g fat (4 g sat), 7 g protein, 37 g carb, 314 mg sodium, 3 g sugars, 10 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Brown Sugar & Vanilla . 19. Easy Baked BBQ Seitan Plant-Based RD Ingredients: 1 c. vital wheat gluten 2 Tbsp nutritional yeast 1 tsp garlic powder 2 tsp smoked paprika 2 tsp onion powder 1 Tbsp soy sauce 2 Tbsp tahini 1 c. veggie broth 1/3 c. BBQ sauce of choice Directions: Preheat the oven to 350F. In a mixing bowl, add in vital wheat gluten, nutritional yeast, garlic powder, smoked paprika, and onion powder then with a fork mix well to combine. Add in soy sauce, tahini and vegetable broth, then with your fork, whisk to combine liquid into the flour until a dough like ball forms. With your hands, gently knead the gluten ball a few times making sure not to over do it. Should take no more than a minute. Transfer dough to a lined baking sheet. Flatten and spread dough out until it is half an inch thick. Place the baking sheet in the oven for 20-25 minutes. Remove seitan from the oven and brush both sides with your favorite BBQ sauce. At this stage you can either grill or rebake your seitan. Place seitan back in the oven for another 10 minutes. You may also opt to broil on high for about 2-3 minutes to help give a little char to the ends of your seitan. Place seitan on a preheated electric grill and allow to cook and sear for about 4-5 minutes on each side or until grill marks appear on the surface of the seitan. Once seitan is cooked, place on a clean surface or plate to rest for 3-5 minutes, then cut and serve as desired. Per serving: 138 calories, 4.6 g fat (0.6 g sat), 10 g protein, 15.6 g carb, 564 mg sodium, 4.8 g sugars, 2.5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Plant-Based RD . 20. Aloo Gobi (Spiced Potato and Cauliflower) Tea For Turmeric Ingredients: ¼ c. grapeseed avocado, or other neutral oil 1 tsp cumin seeds ½ tsp nigella seeds – (kalonji) optional 1 medium onion finely chopped 5 garlic cloves crushed 3/4 inch piece ginger crushed 3 small to medium tomatoes finely chopped 2 tsp coriander powder 1 tsp cumin powder 1/2 tsp turmeric ¼ tsp red chili powder or more to taste 1 tsp salt or more to taste 1 small head cauliflower cut into small florets (about 1 lb or 500 grams chopped) 2 medium potatoes peeled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes (around 350 grams), and placed in a bowl of water to prevent browning 1 green chili pepper sliced or chopped 1/2 tsp soy sauce or tamari 1/4 tsp lemon or lime juice or to taste 2 Tbsp chopped cilantro leaves to garnish Directions: Heat oil in a non-stick pan over medium-high heat. Add the cumin and nigella seeds and let them sizzle for a few seconds. Add the chopped onions and sauté, stirring frequently, until they turn lightly golden, about 5-6 minutes. Add the garlic and ginger and sauté until the raw smell disappears, about 30 seconds. Add the tomatoes, spice powders (coriander, cumin, turmeric, red chili) and salt. Cook until the tomatoes are soft and the oil begins to separate from them, about 4-5 minutes. Add the potatoes, cauliflower, and green chili pepper. Stir-fry for about 4-5 minutes. Turn the heat down to low-medium, cover, and let cook for about 20 minutes, stirring once or twice in between. When the vegetables are cooked and all the moisture is gone, turn off the heat and add the soy sauce and lemon juice. Mix well and garnish with chopped cilantro. Serve with roti, naan, or rice. Per serving: 164 calories, 2.5 g fat (0.5 g sat), 5.3 g protein, 29.8 g carb, 755 mg sodium, 7.1 g sugars, 7.4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Tea For Turmeric . 21. Slow Cooker Jamaican Chicken Stew Jeanette's Healthy Living Ingredients: 3 lb chicken parts 2 tsp curry powder 1 ½ tsp dried thyme ¾ tsp ground allspice ½ tsp red pepper flakes ½ tsp black pepper ½ tsp salt 2 tsp olive oil 1 medium onion chopped 3 cloves garlic minced ½ c. red wine 1 ½ c. 15 ounces black beans, rinsed and drained 1 ½ c. 15 ounces diced tomatoes, undrained Directions: Toss chicken with curry powder, thyme, allspice, red pepper flakes, black pepper and salt. Heat oil in a large skillet. Add onions and garlic and sauté until onions are softened, about 3 minutes. Add chicken mixture to skillet and brown on both sides. Add wine and let cook for a few minutes. Add tomatoes and black beans and mix well. Transfer to crock pot and cook in high for 4-5 hours until tender and meat is falling off the bone. Alternatively, you can continue to cook the chicken on the stove top for about 25-30 minutes until chicken is done. Per serving: 423 calories, 24 g fat (6 g sat), 32 g protein, 13 g carb, 557 mg sodium, 2 g sugars, 4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Jeanette’s Healthy Living. 22. Slow Roasted Salmon Citrus Salad Jeanette's Healthy Living Ingredients: ½ red onion 2 Tbsp red wine vinegar Boston lettuce leaves 1 avocado Aleppo pepper flakes 3 roasted beets quartered 2 orange peeled, cut into segments 1 grapefruit peeled, cut into segments 1 large tomato halved, cut into ¼" thick slices ½ English cucumber sliced 1 lb Slow Roasted Citrus Salmon Flakey salt such as fleur de sel or Maldon salt Ingredients for the citrus shallot vinaigrette: 1 Tbsp shallot minced 2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice or orange juice 1 ½ tsp rice wine vinegar 1 garlic clove smashed 5 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil Salt and pepper to taste Directions: Pickle onions by placing onion and vinegar in small bowl, and letting them sit for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, line serving plate with lettuce leaves. Cut avocado in half and remove pit. Scoop spoonfuls of avocado onto plate; season with flakey salt and aleppo pepper. Arrange quartered beets on plate. Arrange orange and grapefruit segments on plate. Lightly salt tomato slices. Place on plate. Lightly salt cucumbers and place on plate. Scatter pickled onions on plate. Break salmon into pieces and arrange on plate. Drizzle Citrus Shallot Vinaigrette on top and sprinkle with a little flakey salt to finish. Per serving: 336 calories, 21 g fat (3 g sat), 17 g protein, 20 g carb, 70 mg sodium, 11 g sugars, 5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Jeanette’s Healthy Living. 23. Spicy Korean Beef Noodle Soup Jeanette's Healthy Living Ingredients: 1.7 oz mung bean noodles (sometimes called cellophane or glass noodles) 1 c. cooked short rib meat shredded (from rich beef broth recipe) 2 Tbsp toasted sesame oil 1 ½ - 2 Tbsp Korean red pepper flakes 1 Tbsp garlic chopped 4 c. Rich Beef Broth 1 c. water 2 c. bok choy chopped 4 fresh shitake mushrooms sliced 2 scallions cut into 2" lengths Extra Korean red pepper flakes for serving Fish sauce or soy sauce for serving Directions: Soak mung bean noodles in hot water for 20-30 minutes; drain. Heat sesame oil, red pepper flakes and garlic in a small pan until fragrant and garlic is light brown; mix with shredded meat; set aside. Heat beef broth and water in a large saucepan. Add bok choy, mushrooms, and drained, soaked mung bean noodles; cook about 3-4 minutes until noodles are just soft and bok choy is cooked. Add marinated meat and scallions to soup and heat through. Divide among bowls; serve with extra Korean red pepper flakes for spicy food lovers. If beef broth is unsalted, serve with fish sauce or soy sauce on the side for drizzling. Per serving: 314 calories, 8 g fat (5 g sat), 22 g protein, 18 g carb, 677 mg sodium, 1 g sugars, 1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Jeanette’s Healthy Living. 24. Crockpot Beef Vegetable Soup Well Plated Ingredients: 1 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil 1 lb boneless chuck roast or beef stew meat — cut into 1-inch cubes 2 tsp kosher salt — divided ¼ tsp black pepper 3-4 c. low sodium beef broth — divided 1 small yellow onion — diced 2 cloves garlic — minced (about 2 tsp) 4 large carrots — peeled and finely chopped 2 Yukon gold potatoes — peeled and diced 2 parsnips — peeled and diced 2 ribs celery — diced 1 14.5-ounce can diced tomatoes 1 can tomato sauce (8 ounces) 3 Tbsp tomato paste 1 Tbsp Worcestershire sauce 1 tsp dried oregano ½ tsp smoked paprika ½ tsp granulated sugar 1 c. peas — fresh or frozen (no need to thaw) Chopped fresh parsley — optional for serving Directions: In a large skillet, heat the oil over medium high. Add the beef and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon salt and pepper. Brown the beef on all sides, disturbing it as little as possible on each side so that it develops nice coloring. Once the beef is lightly browned (it won’t be all the way cooked through), remove it to a 6-quart slow cooker. To the pan, add the onion. Cook and stir until the onion is beginning to soften, about 3 minutes. Stir in the garlic and let cook 30 seconds. Splash in about 1/2 cup the beef broth and scrape up any browned bits that have stuck to the bottom (this is flavor!). Let the broth reduce for 2 minutes, then transfer the entire mixture to the slow cooker. To the slow cooker, add the carrots, potatoes, parsnips, celery, diced tomatoes in their juices, tomato sauce, tomato paste, Worcestershire, oregano, paprika, sugar, 2 1/2 cups beef broth, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt. Cover and cook on low for 8 hours, until the beef and vegetables are tender. Stir in the peas, just until warmed through. If the soup is thicker than you would like, add the remaining 1 cup beef broth until you reach your desired consistency. Serve hot, sprinkled with fresh parsley. Per serving: 283 calories, 7 g fat (2 g sat), 24 g protein, 33 g carb, 11 g sugars, 8 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Erin Clarke of Well Plated. 25. Mediterranean Shrimp Well Plated Ingredients: 1 lb large shrimp — 40 to 50 per pound peeled, deveined shrimp, tails on or off (fresh or frozen and thawed) ¾ tsp kosher salt — divided ½ tsp ground black pepper — divided 2 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil 1 small red onion — chopped 2 cloves garlic — minced (about 2 teaspoons) 1 14.5-oz can fire roasted diced tomatoes in their juices 1 tsp dried oregano ¼ tsp red pepper flakes 1 tsp honey 1 tsp red wine vinegar 1 14-oz can artichoke hearts — drained and quartered ½ c. pitted Kalamata olives ¾ c. crumbled feta cheese 2 Tbsp chopped fresh parsley 2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice — from about ½ medium lemon For serving: rice — whole wheat couscous, crusty bread, pasta (optional) Directions: Place a rack in the center of your oven and preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Pat the shrimp dry, place in a mixing bowl, and sprinkle with ½ teaspoon salt and ¼ teaspoon black pepper. Toss to coat, then set aside. In a large, ovenproof skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil. Add onion and sprinkle with the remaining ¼ teaspoon salt and ¼ teaspoon black pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Reduce the heat as needed so that the onion softens but does not brown. Add the garlic and cook just until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the tomatoes, oregano, and red pepper flakes. Reduce the heat to medium-low and let gently simmer for 10 minutes. Stir in the red wine vinegar and honey. Remove from the heat. Scatter the artichokes and olives over the top, then arrange the shrimp on top in a single layer. Sprinkle with the feta. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, until the tomatoes are bubbling, cheese has browned slightly, and the shrimp are cooked through. Squeeze the lemon juice over the top and sprinkle with parsley. Enjoy hot. Per serving: 445 calories, 24 g fat (8 g sat), 38 g protein, 17 g carb, 9 g sugars, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Erin Clarke of Well Plated. 26. Mexican Stuffed Peppers Well Plated Ingredients: 4 large bell peppers 2 tsp extra virgin olive oil 1 lb ground chicken — or turkey (I used chicken) 1 tsp ground chili powder 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp garlic powder ½ tsp kosher salt ¼ tsp black pepper 1 can fire-roasted diced tomatoes — with juices, 14 ounces 1 ½ c. cooked brown rice — quinoa or cauliflower rice 1 ¼ c. shredded cheese — Monterey Jack, pepper jack, cheddar, or similar cheese, divided Directions: Preheat your oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly coat a 9x13-inch baking dish with nonstick spray. Slice the bell peppers in half from top to bottom. Remove the seeds and membranes, then arrange cut side up in the prepared baking dish. Heat the olive oil in a large, nonstick skillet over medium high heat. Add the chicken, chili powder, cumin, garlic powder, salt, and pepper. Cook, breaking apart the meat, until the chicken is browned and cooked through, about 4 minutes. Drain off any excess liquid, then pour in the can of diced tomatoes and their juices. Let simmer for 1 minute. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the rice and ¾ cup of the shredded cheese. Mound the filling inside of the peppers, then top with the remaining cheese. Pour a bit of water into the pan with the peppers—just enough to barely cover the bottom of the pan. Bake uncovered for 25 to 35 minutes, until the peppers are tender and the cheese is melted. Top with any of your favorite fixings, and enjoy hot. Per serving: 438 calories, 20 g fat (8 g sat), 32 g protein, 32 g carb, 8 g sugars, 5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Erin Clarke of Well Plated. 27. Zucchini Pizza Boats Well Plated Ingredients: 4 medium zucchini ¼ tsp kosher salt 1 c. pizza sauce — or similar prepared marinara sauce 1 ¼ c. shredded mozzarella cheese — or a blend of shredded mozzarella and provolone 1 tsp Italian seasoning ¼ - ½ tsp crushed red pepper flakes — optional ¼ c. mini pepperoni — or mini turkey pepperoni or regular-size pepperoni, sliced into quarters 2 tsp freshly ground Parmesan 2 tsp chopped fresh basil, thyme, or other fresh herbs Directions: Place a rack in the center of your oven. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly coat a rimmed baking sheet or 9x13-inch baking dish with nonstick spray. Halve each zucchini lengthwise. With a small spoon or melon baller, gently scrape out the center zucchini flesh and pulp, leaving a border of about 1/3 inch on all sides. Arrange the zucchini shells on the baking sheet. Sprinkle the insides of the zucchini with salt. Spoon the pizza sauce into each shell, dividing it evenly. You may need a little more or less, depending upon the size of your zucchini. Put a generous amount, but don't feel like you need to fill it all the way to the very top. Sprinkle the mozzarella over the top, then evenly sprinkle with Italian seasoning and red pepper flakes (if using). Scatter on the pepperoni and any other desired toppings. Last, sprinkle with Parmesan. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the cheese is hot and bubbly and the zucchini is tender. If desired, switch the oven to broil and cook the zucchini for 2 to 3 additional minutes, until the cheese is lightly browned. Remove from the oven and sprinkle with chopped fresh basil. Serve immediately. Per serving: 100 calories, 6 g fat (3 g sat), 7 g protein, 5 g carb, 4 g sugars, 2 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Erin Clarke of Well Plated. 28. Creamy Gluten-Free Tomato Pasta Cotter Crunch Ingredients: 3 Tbsp olive oil (divided) ½ c. diced white onion 1 tsp minced garlic 10 oz gluten free pasta 8 oz canned Italian stewed tomatoes (drained) ¼ c. paleo mayo 1 egg yolk ¼ tsp each kosher salt and black pepper Optional ½ tsp crushed red pepper flakes Fresh basil and cracked pepper Directions: In a small pan, sauté onions and garlic in 1 tbsp olive until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Once they are almost cooked, set aside. In a large pot, cook your gluten free pasta according to directions. Drain, rinse the pasta, and place pasta back into pot. Keep on low heat. Mix in the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil and mix well. Mix gently. In a separate bowl, whisk together the mayo and egg yolk. Add this mix to your pot with the pasta, coating until creamy. Gently mix in the sauteed onion/garlic. Toss the pasta with the tomatoes, kosher salt and pepper. Stir gently over low to medium low heat until creamy and combined. If using a cooked protein, add it in here. Plate pasta into bowls. Garnish with fresh basil and cracked pepper. Per serving: 353 calories, 17.1 g fat (2.7 g sat), 9.2 g protein, 42.2 g carb, 186 mg sodium, 4.8 g sugars, 3.7 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Lindsay Cotter of Cotter Crunch. 29. Honey Mustard Chicken with Brussel Sprouts Cotter Crunch Ingredients: Nonstick cooking spray 1⁄4 c. plus 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice (1 lemon) 1 Tbsp Dijon mustard 1 Tbsp whole-grain mustard 1 Tbsp honey 3 garlic cloves, minced Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 2 lb bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs (4 medium thighs) 1 1⁄2 lb Brussels sprouts, halved 1⁄4 large red onion, sliced Directions: Preheat the oven to 425°F. Grease a large baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray and set aside. In a medium bowl, whisk together the 1⁄4 cup olive oil, 1 tablespoon of the lemon juice, the Dijon mustard, whole-grain mustard, honey, and garlic. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Use tongs to dip the chicken thighs in the sauce, coating both sides. Place the thighs on the prepared baking sheet. Discard any remaining sauce. In a medium bowl, combine the Brussels sprouts and red onion. Drizzle with the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil and 1 tablespoon lemon juice and toss until well coated. Arrange the sprouts around the chicken on the baking sheet, making sure they aren’t overlapping. Season with salt and pepper. Roast for 30 to 35 minutes, until the chicken is golden brown and has an internal temperature of 165°F and the Brussels sprouts are crispy. Serve hot. Per serving: 360 calories, 20.1 g fat (3.6 g sat), 30.8 g protein, 14.5 g carb, 350.8 mg sodium, 6.8 g sugars, 3.7 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Lindsay Cotter of Cotter Crunch. 30. Chinese Cauliflower Fried Rice Casserole Cotter Crunch Ingredients: Sesame oil for the pan Optional 5 oz diced meat (pork or chicken) 1 Tbsp grated ginger 1 small shallot, chopped 2 tsp garlic, minced 1 lb stir fry vegetables Handful of mung bean sprouts, optional ¼ c. gluten free Szechuan sauce or other gluten-free sauce of choice 3 c. cauliflower rice or broccoli rice (about 1 small to medium head of cauliflower) 2 Tbsp beef broth (you can skip if your veggies are less starchy. The broth just gives the casserole more flavor.) 6 eggs (2 in stir fry and 4 on top, soft baked) Directions: Preheat oven to 350 F. Add 1-2 Tbsp sesame oil to a wok or large pan and heat to medium high. If you are wanting to add meat, do so here. Simply stir fry until browned and mostly cooked (in sesame oil), then remove meat and set aside. If you are making the vegetarian option, skip the browning and go straight to adding your shallot, ginger, and garlic to the wok/pan and stir fry ingredients until fragrant – about 2 minutes. Next add all of your stir fry veggies and sauce. Stir fry for 2-3 minutes again until well coated. Mix in your cauliflower rice, broth, and 2 eggs. The 2 eggs can be added to the stir fry whole, or whisked then added. Either works! Stir fry for an additional 3-4 minutes to create a fried cauliflower rice. All in all, the stir frying should not take longer than 10 minutes. Transfer wok/pan ingredients to an 8 x 11 casserole dish or baking dish. Crack 4 eggs on top of the casserole, spacing them out evenly. Cover with foil, and place in oven at 350F for 15-20 minutes or until eggs are set. For runny eggs, remove casserole from oven after 12-15 minutes of baking and slice the yolk in the middle to create a runny egg (similar to pictures in blog). Return casserole to the oven for an additional 3-5 minutes. Cool before freezing, or serve immediately. Garnish with green onion, cilantro, sesame seeds and optional red pepper flakes. Per serving: 165 calories, 8.8 g fat (2.4 g sat), 11 g protein, 11.8 g carb, 387.4 mg sodium, 6.2 g sugars, 2.8 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Lindsay Cotter of Cotter Crunch. 31. Mexican Salad with Chipotle Shrimp A Spicy Perspective Ingredients: 2 lb raw jumbo shrimp, peeled and cleaned (tail on or off) 8 c. chopped kale 4 ears corn on the cob, shucked 15 oz can black beans, drained 1 pint grape or cherry tomatoes, halved 1 whole ripe avocado, peeled and chopped 2-3 whole chipotle peppers in adobo sauce 7 Tbsp fresh lime juice, divided ¼ c. olive oil ¼ c. mayonnaise 2 Tbsp honey 3 cloves garlic ½ tsp salt Directions: Preheat the grill to medium heat. To a blender jar, add the chipotle peppers, 4 tablespoons of lime juice, olive oil, garlic, and salt. Cover and puree until smooth. Measure out 3 tablespoons of the chipotle puree and save it for the dressing. In a medium bowl, mix the shrimp and the remaining marinade, until well coated. In a separate small bowl, mix the 3 tablespoons of chipotle puree, 3 tablespoons lime juice, mayonnaise, and honey. Whisk until smooth. Then taste, and salt and pepper as needed. Prep all the veggies. Set out a large salad bowl. Add the kale. Then toss it with the dressing until well coated. (I like to massage the dressing into the kale by hand.) Then add in the black beans, tomatoes, and avocado. Place the shrimp and corn cobs on the grills. *If your shrimp are small they will fall through the grates. Either use a grill basket, or place them on a piece of foil. Grill the shrimp for 3-5 minutes until pink. Grill the corn for 8-10 minutes rotating every 2 minutes. Once the corn is cool enough to handle, cut it off the cobs and add it to the salad. Then toss in the shrimp and serve. Per serving: 372 calories, 15 g fat (2 g sat), 31 g protein, 31 g carb, 1314 mg sodium, 9 g sugars, 5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Sommer Collier of A Spicy Perspective. 32. Chicken Sausage Apple Squash Sheet Pan Dinner A Spicy Perspective Ingredients: 1 Tbsp olive oil 1 small butternut squash 1 large crisp apple 1 sweet onion 4 chicken sausages ½ Tbsp ground allspice Salt and pepper Directions: Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Cut the butternut squash in half, lengthwise. Cut off the circular orb sections (the end with the seedpod) and save for future use. Peel the long sections of the butternut squash, then slice them into thin wedges. Core the apple and slice into wedges, unpeeled. Then peel and slice the onion into wedges. Pile the butternut squash, apples, and onions on a large rimmed 18x13-inch “half sheet” baking pan. Drizzle olive oil over the top and toss to coat. Then spread the squash, apples, and onions out into a single layer. Sprinkle with allspice, salt, and pepper. Roast in the oven for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the chicken sausages on the bias, into 1/2-inch slices. Flip the veggies, and spread them back out. Make room on the baking sheet to add the sausages. Place the sheet back in the oven for 10-15 minutes, until the sausages are sizzling. Serve warm! Per serving: 336 calories, 15 g fat (3 g sat), 15 g protein, 38 g carb, 884 mg sodium, 14 g sugars, 5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Sommer Collier of A Spicy Perspective. 33. Confetti Quinoa Stuffed Chicken A Spicy Perspective Ingredients: 4 boneless skinless chicken breasts ¾ c. quinoa, any color 1 ½ c. chicken broth 1 Tbsp coconut oil ¾ c. diced bell pepper (I used red and yellow) ½ c. diced red onion 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 serrano pepper, seeded and diced ⅓ c. shaved unsweetened coconut (coconut chips) ¼ c. chipped cilantro 1 lime, zest and 1 tablespoon juice 1 tsp ground cumin 1 tsp chili powder 1 tsp salt Directions: Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Place the coconut oil in a medium sauce pot and set over medium-high heat. Once melted, add the diced bell pepper, red onion, garlic, and serrano pepper. Sauté for 1-2 minutes to soften just a little. Then pour the vegetables into a bowl. They should still be bright in color. Place the quinoa in the empty sauce pot. Turn the heat up to high and add the broth and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cover the pot and bring to a boil. Cook for 15 minutes, or until the broth has absorbed and there are vent holes in the surface of the quinoa. Remove from heat and let the quinoa steam for another 5 minutes. Meanwhile, use a boning knife to cut a slit in each chicken breast along one long side. Cut through the center of the chicken, with the knife parallel to the cutting board, leaving the opposite side attached. You're trying to create a deep pocket in each breast, with a 1/2-inch border around the three attached sides. (See post images for clarification.) Cut evenly, as to not leave thick uncut sections that won't cook through in the oven. Then sprinkle each breast on all sides with cumin, chili powder, and salt. Once the quinoa is fluffy, stir in the sautéed vegetables, shaved coconut, cilantro, lime zest, and lime juice. Taste, and salt as needed. Stuff the confetti quinoa into the cavity of each chicken breast. Stand the chicken breasts up on the baking sheet, like open envelopes, with the quinoa on top. Bake for 20 minutes. Serve warm. Per serving: 355 calories, 13 g fat (8 g sat), 30 g protein, 28 g carb, 1051 mg sodium, 2 g sugars, 4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Sommer Collier of A Spicy Perspective. 34. One-Pot Chicken Soup with White Beans & Kale Minimalist Baker Ingredients: 1 strip uncured bacon, chopped 1 Tbsp avocado oil (if using bacon, omit oil) 1 c. diced white or yellow onion 4 cloves garlic, minced 8 c. broth (chicken broth or vegetable broth) 1 15-oz can white beans, slightly drained 2 c. shredded chicken Sea salt and black pepper to taste 3 c. loosely packed chopped kale (or other sturdy green) Directions: Heat a large pot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Once hot, add bacon (optional) or oil. Let heat for 1 minute, stirring occasionally. Then add onion. Sauté for 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until onion is translucent and fragrant. Then add garlic and sauté 2-3 minutes more, being careful not to burn. Next add broth, slightly drained white beans, and chicken and bring to a simmer. Cook for 10 minutes to meld the flavors. Then taste and season with salt and pepper to taste. In the last few minutes of cooking, add the kale, cover, and cook until wilted. Serve hot. Store cooled leftovers covered in the fridge up to 3-4 days, or in the freezer up to 1 month. Reheat in the microwave or on the stovetop until hot. Per serving: 201 calories, 6.9 g fat (1.6 g sat), 15.8 g protein, 19.5 g carb, 689 mg sodium, 2.3 g sugars, 15.8 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Minimalist Baker. 35. Balsamic-Marinated Portobello Pizzas Minimalist Baker Ingredients: 4 large portobello mushrooms (stems removed, wiped clean) ¼ c. balsamic vinegar 2 Tbsp avocado or olive oil 1 pinch salt and pepper (or red pepper flake) 1 medium red bell pepper (cut into bite-size pieces) 1 small red onion (thinly sliced wedges or diced) 1 head garlic (cloves separated and peeled) 2 Tbsp avocado or olive oil 1 healthy pinch sea salt and black pepper (or red pepper flake) 2 Tbsp fresh herbs (such as rosemary or oregano // optional) ¾ c. pizza sauce ½ c. sun-dried tomatoes (if large, chop into smaller pieces // we prefer Trader Joe’s brand) ⅓ c. soft vegan cheese, divided Directions: Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (204 C) and line a large baking sheet with parchment paper. Set aside. Add portobello mushrooms (stem side up) to a shallow dish or large freezer bag. Add the balsamic vinegar, oil, salt and pepper (or red pepper flake). Use a pastry brush to brush on all sides (or shake bag to coat). Marinate on one side for 5 minutes, then the other side for 5 minutes. In the meantime, add vegetables and garlic to baking sheet, toss with oil, salt and pepper, and fresh herbs (optional) and bake for 20-25 minutes or until golden brown and fragrant, tossing once near the halfway point to ensure even baking. Set aside but keep oven at 400 F (204 C). If serving with balsamic reduction (see notes) and/or soft nut cheese (see links above), prepare at this time. Heat a large skillet over medium heat (you could also use a grill for this step). Add mushrooms to the pan, leaving any leftover oil-and-vinegar marinade behind. Cook on each side for about 4-5 minutes, or until caramelized and softened. If your mushrooms are extra thick, covering with a lid can be helpful to encourage even cooking all the way through. Brush on any remaining marinade while cooking to infuse more flavor. Once mushrooms and vegetables are cooked, assemble pizzas. Place mushrooms on a parchment-lined baking sheet or baking pan and add toppings, starting with pizza sauce, then roasted veggies, roasted garlic, and soft vegan cheese. You can also add vegan parmesan cheese or red pepper flake at this point (optional). Bake for about 15-20 minutes or until hot. The soft vegan cheese will be slightly golden brown on top. Remove from oven and enjoy as is, or garnish with sun-dried tomatoes, fresh basil, balsamic drizzle, red pepper flake, and extra vegan parmesan (all optional). Per serving: 301 calories, 21.6 g fat (2.8 g sat), 5.5 g protein, 22.5 g carb, 179 mg sodium, 12.1 g sugars, 4.6 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Minimalist Baker. 36. Chicken and Zucchini Stir Fry Skinnytaste Ingredients: ¼ c. low sodium soy sauce or use gluten-free soy sauce 1 c. chicken broth 1 Tbsp cornstarch 2 Tbsp mirin 1 Tbsp sugar 2 tsp sesame oil 1 tsp canola oil divided 1 Tbsp minced garlic 1 Tbsp minced ginger 1 lb chicken breast, sliced very thinly 2 c. zucchini, cut ¼ inch thick half moons (from 1 large zucchini) Sesame seeds and scallion for garnish, if desired Directions: In a large bowl add the soy sauce, chicken broth, cornstarch, mirin, sugar, and sesame oil and whisk until everything is completely dissolved. In a large skillet add one teaspoon canola oil on medium high heat and cook half the chicken until just cooked through, about 2-3 minutes on each side. Set aside on a plate. Repeat with the second half of the chicken and an additional teaspoon of oil. Remove the chicken to the plate. Add in the remaining 1 teaspoon oil, garlic and ginger and cook for 30-45 seconds until very fragrant but not browned. Stir the garlic and ginger well and add in the sauce, whisking well. Cook the sauce 1 minute, then add in the zucchini and cook for 2 minutes more, until thickened and the zucchini is tender crisp. Remove from heat, add in the chicken and stir well to coat. Garnish with sesame seeds and scallions if desired. Per serving: 242 calories, 6.5 g fat (1 g sat), 28 g protein, 17 g carb, 799 mg sodium, 8 g sugars, 1.5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Skinny Taste. 37. Broiled Tilapia with Thai Coconut Curry Sauce Skinnytaste Ingredients: 1 tsp dark sesame oil, divided 1 Tbsp minced peeled fresh ginger 4 garlic cloves, minced 1 c. finely chopped red bell pepper 1 c. chopped scallions 1 tsp curry powder 2 tsp red curry paste ½ tsp ground cumin 4 tsp low-sodium soy sauce, use tamari for gluten-free 1 Tbsp brown sugar 2 tsp Asian fish sauce 1 14-oz can light coconut milk ¼ c. chopped fresh cilantro 6 6-oz tilapia fillets Salt Directions: Preheat broiler. Heat ½ teaspoon oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add the ginger, garlic, pepper and scallions; cook 1 minute. Stir in curry powder, curry paste, and cumin; cook 1 minute. Add soy sauce, sugar, Asian fish sauce, and coconut milk; bring to a simmer (do not boil). Remove from heat; stir in cilantro or basil if using. Brush fish with ½ teaspoon oil; sprinkle with ¼ teaspoon salt. Place fish on a baking sheet coated with cooking spray. Broil 7 minutes or until fish flakes easily when tested with a fork. Serve fish with sauce, rice, and lime wedges. Per serving: 225 calories, 7 g fat (0 g sat), 35.5 g protein, 5.5 g carb, 1.1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Skinny Taste. 38. Sheet Pan Turkey Meatloaf and Broccoli Skinnytaste Ingredients: 1.3 lb (20 oz) 93% ground turkey ⅓ c. quick cooking oatmeal, or gf oats 6 Tbsp ketchup, divided ⅓ c. minced onion 1 large egg ½ tsp dried or fresh thyme leaves 1 tsp kosher salt 2 tsp Worcesterchire sauce, divided 1 large bunch broccoli, (1 ½ pounds) cut into florets 2 Tbsp olive oil ¾ tsp kosher salt Directions: Preheat the oven to 425F. Line a 13x9-inch sheet pan with Reynolds Wrap Non-Stick Foil, dull side facing up towards food. In a medium bowl toss broccoli with oil and season with ½ teaspoon salt and spread out on the sheet pan in a single layer on one side. In a medium bowl combine ground turkey, oatmeal, ¼ cup ketchup, onion, egg, ¾ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Worcesterchire sauce and thyme, mix well. Divide mixture into 4 equal portions. Shape each portion into a 4 x 3–inch free form loaf on the other side of the sheet pan. In a small bowl mix remaining 2 tablespoons ketchup with remaining teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and brush onto loaves. Bake 30 minutes in the center of the oven, turning the broccoli halfway, until meat is cooked through in the center and the broccoli is slightly charred. Per serving: 335 calories, 13 g fat (4 g sat), 35 g protein, 22.5 g carb, 933 mg sodium, 4 g sugars, 6g fiber Recipe courtesy of Skinny Taste. 39. Spicy Tuna Poke Bowls Skinnytaste Ingredients: ½ lb sushi grade tuna, cut into 1/2-inch cubes ¼ c. sliced scallions 2 Tbsp reduced sodium soy sauce or gluten-free tamari 1 tsp sesame oil ½ tsp sriracha 2 Tbsp light mayonnaise 2 tsp sriracha sauce 1 c. cooked short grain brown rice or sushi white rice 1 c. cucumbers, (from 2 Persian) peeled and diced ½-inch cubes ½ medium Hass avocado, (3 ounces) sliced 2 scallions, sliced for garnish 1 tsp black sesame seeds Reduced sodium soy or gluten-free tamari, for serving (optional) Sriracha, for serving (optional)  Directions: In a small bowl combine the mayonnaise and sriracha, thin with a little water to drizzle. In a medium bowl, combine tuna with scallions, soy sauce, sesame oil and sriracha. Gently toss to combine and set aside while you prepare the bowls. In 2 bowls, layer 1/2 the rice, 1/2 the tuna, avocado, cucumber and scallions. Drizzle with spicy mayo and sesame seeds and serve with extra soy sauce on the side, if desired. Per serving: 397 calories, 14.5 g fat (2 g sat), 32.5 g protein, 33.5 g carb, 864.5 mg sodium, 3 g sugars, 6 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Skinny Taste. 40. Egg Roll in a Bowl Eating Bird Food Ingredients: 1 lb ground chicken or turkey 2 tsp fresh ginger, grated or minced ¼ c. chopped yellow onion 2 cloves garlic, minced 2 tsp sesame oil 1 12-oz package coleslaw or broccoli slaw mix 3 Tbsp coconut aminos (or low-sodium tamari or soy sauce) 1 tsp sambal oelek paste 2 green onions, chopped Sriracha, for serving (optional) Sesame seeds and cilantro, for garnish (optional) Directions: Brown ground chicken or turkey in a large skillet. Break meat into smaller pieces as it cooks using a wooden spoon or spatula. Cook for about 6-8 minutes or until the meat is no longer pink. Remove from heat. In the same skillet over medium heat, add sesame oil. Once hot, add onion, garlic and ginger and cook until fragrant, about 3-5 minutes. Add coleslaw mix (shredded cabbage and carrots) into the skillet. Toss and add coconut aminos and sambal oelek paste. Cook for another 3-5 minutes or until cabbage is tender. Portion into bowls and top each with green onions and a drizzle of sriracha, sesame seeds and cilantro (if using). Per serving: 325 calories, 15 g fat (3 g sat), 32 g protein, 14 g carb, 393 mg sodium, 8 g sugars, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Eating Bird Food. 41. Blackened Chicken Cobb Salad Eating Bird Food Ingredients: ¾ tsp paprika ¾ tsp chili powder ¾ tsp garlic powder ½ tsp sea salt ¼ tsp pepper Pinch of cayenne pepper 1 Tbsp olive oil (if needed) 1 lb boneless skinless chicken breasts (3–4 pieces) 12 c. baby spinach or chopped romaine 4 large eggs, hard-boiled, peeled and sliced 1 c. grape tomatoes, halved 1 large cucumber, sliced 1 c. baby bella mushrooms, sautéed ½ c. red onion, chopped 6 slices cooked turkey bacon, crumbled ½ c. crumbled blue cheese (optional) 1–2 avocados, sliced Ingredients for the red wine vinaigrette: ⅓ c. red wine vinegar 1 Tbsp Dijon mustard 1 tsp maple syrup or honey ¾ tsp sea salt ½ tsp black pepper ½ c. extra virgin olive oil Directions: Take chicken out of the package and pat dry with paper towels. Add spices — paprika, garlic powder, chili powder, sea salt, black pepper and cayenne pepper — in a small bowl. Coat each chicken breast with spice mixture. To cook the chicken, you can either grill it on an indoor or outdoor grill or sear it on the stovetop. To sear: add 1 Tablespoon olive oil to a large skillet over medium heat. Place chicken breasts in hot oil. Cook chicken about 6–7 minutes on each side, or until juices run clear. Remove chicken from skillet and let sit for 5 minutes to cool before slicing for the salad. This step can be done a day in advance. While the chicken cooks, make the dressing by whisking together all the ingredients in a small bowl or glass jar. Divide the spinach or romaine among 4 plates (or containers if you’re making this for meal prep). Arrange equal portions of blackened chicken, hard-boiled egg, tomatoes, cucumber, mushrooms, red onion, avocado, bacon and blue cheese on top of the greens. Just before serving, top salad with 1–2 Tablespoons of the red wine vinaigrette dressing or your favorite dressing. Per serving: 475 calories, 25 g fat, 46 g protein, 17 g carb, 5 g sugars, 9 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Eating Bird Food. 42. Asian Chicken Lettuce Wraps Eating Bird Food Ingredients: 3 Tbsp hoisin sauce 2 Tbsp low-sodium tamari (or soy sauce) 2 Tbsp rice wine vinegar 1 Tbsp Sriracha 1 tsp sesame oil 1 Tbsp avocado or olive oil 1 medium onion, diced 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 Tbsp freshly grated ginger 1 lb ground chicken ½ c. water chestnuts, drained and sliced Sea salt and black pepper, to taste Butter, Bibb or Iceberg lettuce (leaves separated), for serving 2 green onions, thinly sliced, for serving ¼ c. crushed peanuts, for serving Ingredients for the peanut sauce: ¼ c. peanut butter 2 Tbsp low sodium tamari (or soy sauce) 2 Tbsp maple syrup 1 clove garlic 1 tsp Sriracha Water  Directions: Whisk together hoisin sauce, soy sauce, rice wine vinegar, Sriracha and sesame oil in a small bowl. Set aside. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat oil. Add onions and cook until soft, 5 minutes, then stir in garlic and ginger and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more. Add ground chicken and cook until opaque and mostly cooked through, breaking up meat with a wooden spoon. Pour in sauce and cook 1 to 2 minutes more, until sauce reduces slightly and chicken is cooked through completely. Turn off heat and stir in water chestnuts. Taste mixture and season with salt and pepper, if needed. Make peanut sauce by whisking together all ingredients in a small bowl. For a thinner sauce, add water 1 Tablespoon at a time to create the desired consistency. Serve chicken mixture with lettuce leaves and spoon about 1/4 cup into center of each leaf. Top with crushed peanuts and green onions. Serve with peanut sauce. Per serving: 471 calories, 29 g fat, 28 g protein, 28 g carb, 908 mg sodium, 17 g sugars, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Eating Bird Food. 43. Chipotle Chicken Tostadas with Pineapple Salsa Ambitious Kitchen Ingredients: 1 Tbsp avocado oil (or olive oil) 2 lb ground chicken 2 tsp chipotle chili powder Freshly ground salt and pepper ¼ c. low-sodium chicken broth 1 Tbsp tomato paste 6 (8-inch) grain-free tortillas 2 avocados, mashed ½ c. shredded purple cabbage ¼ c. chopped fresh cilantro leaves  Ingredients for the pineapple salsa: 2 c. small diced fresh pineapple ¼ c. finely diced red onion 1 Tbsp finely diced jalapeño 2 Tbsp fresh lime juice (from 1 lime) 1 garlic clove, minced 1 Tbsp finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves 1 tsp avocado oil (or olive oil) Pinch of salt Directions: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Make the pineapple salsa: in a medium bowl, toss together the pineapple, onion, jalapeño, lime juice, garlic, cilantro, avocado oil and salt. Refrigerate until ready to serve, up to 5 days. Make the chicken: in a large skillet, heat the avocado oil over medium-high heat. Add the ground chicken, chipotle chili powder, salt and pepper. Cook the chicken, breaking up the meat with the back of a spoon until it is brown, about 7 minutes. Drain off any excess fat from the pan, if necessary. Reduce the heat to medium and add the chicken broth and tomato paste and stir to combine. Continue to cook for about 2 more minutes. Remove from heat and cover to keep warm until ready to serve. To assemble: place the tortillas in a single layer on the prepared baking sheet. Lightly spray the tops of tortillas with nonstick cooking spray. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes, or until golden brown and crisp. Carefully spread the mashed avocado on top of each crisp tortilla. Sprinkle with the shredded cabbage and a big scoop of chipotle chicken. Top with the pineapple salsa and a sprinkle of cilantro. Per serving: 462 calories, 26.7 g fat (6.3 g sat), 31.8 g protein, 26.8 g carb, 7.1 g sugars, 7 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Ambitious Kitchen. 44. Creamy Chipotle Sweet Potato Penne Pasta Ambitious Kitchen Ingredients: 3 c. of brown rice and quinoa penne 1/2 Tbsp olive oil 1 c. sliced baby bella mushrooms 1/4 tsp garlic powder Freshly ground pepper and salt, to taste Ingredients for the sauce: ½ c. whole cashews, soaked for 2 hours and drained 1 small roasted sweet potato, skin removed ⅔ c. water 2 cloves garlic 1 Pueblo Lindo Chiles Chipotle Pepper (can add one more if you like extra spice!) ⅛ tsp nutmeg ½ tsp salt, plus more to taste Freshly ground pepper Directions: Make sure you soak the cashews in 4 cups of water for at least 2 hours, otherwise you can place them large bowl, then add 4 cups boiling water and let the cashews soak in the hot water for approximately 45 minutes to speed up the process. Once ready to make the pasta sauce: add drained cashews, roasted sweet potato, water, garlic, chipotle chile pepper, nutmeg, salt and pepper to a high powered blender. Blend until a thick sauce comes together, adding a tablespoon or two more of water, if necessary to help blend. Taste and adjust seasonings as necessary. Set aside for later. Boil the pasta according to the directions on the package. Drain pasta, then transfer back to pot. While the pasta is boiling, sauté your mushrooms: add olive oil to a skillet and place over medium heat. Add mushrooms and then season with garlic powder, salt and pepper; sauté for 3-5 minutes until mushrooms are cooked and look nice and juicy. Stir sweet potato sauce into the cooked pasta. Add mushrooms and stir again. Garnish with sage or parsley, whatever you prefer. Serves 4. Per serving: 456 calories, 12.2 g fat (1.8 g sat), 11.4 g protein, 76.9 g carb, 2.8 g sugars, 4.9 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Ambitious Kitchen. 45. Spinach Garlic Parmesan Orzo with Crispy Bacon Ambitious Kitchen Ingredients: 8 slices bacon 10 oz uncooked orzo pasta (about 1 2/3 c. uncooked orzo) ½ c. reserved pasta water, after pasta is done boiling 1 Tbsp butter 3 cloves garlic, finely minced ½ c. shredded carrots (or carrots cut into matchsticks) ⅔ c. frozen or fresh sweet corn 1 red bell pepper, cut into chunks 1 (5-oz) package organic spinach ½ c. freshly grated parmesan cheese ½ tsp garlic powder ½ tsp red chili pepper flakes, plus more if desired Freshly ground salt and pepper Directions: Add bacon to a large skillet or pan and place over medium heat, cook bacon on both sides until crispy and golden brown. If the pan starts to smoke at any point, simply lower the heat. I always cook my bacon on medium low heat. Once bacon is done, blot with a paper towel to absorb excess grease, then chop into bite sized pieces and set aside. While the bacon is cooking, place a large pot of water over high heat and add in a generous amount of salt. Once water boils, stir in the orzo and cook until al dente about 7-9 minutes. Once orzo is done cooking, drain pasta and set aside in the colander. Make sure to reserve ½ cup of the pasta water. Next add 1 tablespoon butter to the same pot you cooked the pasta in and place over medium heat. Once butter is melted, add in minced garlic, carrot, corn, red bell pepper and saute for 2 minutes. Next add in spinach; cooking until the spinach wilts, about 2 minutes. Add the cooked orzo back into the pot and turn the heat to low. Stir in the reserved pasta water, parmesan, garlic powder and red chili pepper flakes. Finally, stir in bacon crumbles. Add salt and pepper to taste. I like to add A LOT of black pepper into this dish -- it just gives it a really nice flavor! If you think it needs a little extra parmesan cheese, feel free to stir in ¼ cup more. Enjoy. Serves 4. Per serving: 436 calories, 13.3 g fat (6.2 g sat), 20.2 g protein, 62.7 g carb, 2.6 g sugars, 4.5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Ambitious Kitchen. 46. Rosemary Citrus One Pan Baked Salmon Lindsay Cotter Ingredients: 1/3 cup olive oil Pinch of ground pepper 2 Tbsp fresh orange juice 2 Tbsp fresh rosemary, plus 1-2 extra sprigs to garnish 1 Tbsp Lemon juice 1/2 tsp garlic minced 1/4 tsp of grated dried orange peel (divided) Kosher salt or fine sea salt to taste 1 bunch thin asparagus (trimmed) (Or other vegetable of choice) Olive oil or melted butter to drizzle 10–12 ounces sockeye salmon (whole fillet or around 3 fillets) Thinly sliced Orange (5-6) Optional 1/4 tsp lemon pepper Additional Salt/pepper to taste – after baking Directions:  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Whisk together orange juice, lemon, 2 Tbsp rosemary, 1/4 to 1/3 cup olive oil, pinch of salt, pepper, 1/4 tsp orange peel and garlic. Set aside. Next, layer your dish. First add your trimmed asparagus (or other vegetable of choice) and drizzle with olive oil or butter. Add a pinch (1/4 tsp or so) of lemon pepper seasoning. Place your salmon (skin side down) on between the asparagus spears. Drizzle the orange rosemary marinade on top of the salmon. Add thin orange slices on top of the salmon and on top of the asparagus. Place 2 to 2 fresh sprigs of rosemary evenly on top of the salmon and around the pan. Sprinkle a bit more orange peel, pepper, and kosher salt on top of the salmon veggie bake. Bake at 400F for 12-15 minutes or until salmon is not longer opaque in the middle. Per serving: 345 calories, 22 g fat (3 g sat), 25 g protein, 10 g carb, 5 g sugars, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Lindsay Cotter of Cotter Crunch.  47. Mushroom and Black Bean Smothered Burritos Becca Heyes Ingredients: 100 g (~ 1/3 cup) white rice 1 Tbsp oil 1 medium onion, sliced or diced 8 medium mushrooms, sliced or diced 2 cloves garlic, minced 2 tsp smoked paprika 1 tsp ground cumin 1 Tbsp tomato puree / paste 145 g (~ 2/3 cup) cooked black beans (~ 3/4 of a standard tin Salt Black pepper 4 large flour tortillas 150 g cheddar cheese, grated (~ 1 1/2 cups when grated) 1 Tbsp pickled jalapeños (I used green), finely chopped 1 Tbsp coriander (cilantro), finely chopped 3 Tbsp sour cream Toppings, to serve (optional): diced tomatoes, diced red onion, black olives, fresh coriander, jalapeños, diced avocado, etc. Directions:  Boil the rice in plenty of water until just cooked, then drain. Meanwhile, heat a dash of oil in a large frying pan, and add the onion and mushrooms. Cook for a few minutes over a medium heat until slightly softened, then add the garlic, smoked paprika, cumin and tomato puree. Cook for a few more minutes, stirring regularly. Add the black beans and the cooked rice, and season generously. Mix well to combine. Take one of the large flour tortillas, and add about 1/4 of the rice mixture to the centre. Top with 1/4 of the grated cheese. Fold two sides of the tortilla inwards, then rotate through 90° and fold in the other two sides to fully wrap the burrito. Repeat with the remaining tortillas, rice, and cheese, and place the burritos seam-side down on a baking tray. In a small bowl, combine the finely chopped jalapeños, coriander, and sour cream. Season with a pinch of salt and pepper, and mix well. Divide the sour cream sauce over the 4 burritos, and spread it around a little. Bake at 375 degrees F for around 15-20 minutes, or until crisped up to your liking. Serve with your choice of toppings. Per serving: 486 calories, 22 g fat (10.7 g sat), 18.7 g protein, 53 g carb, 665 mg sodium, 3 g sugars, 5.4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Becca Heyes of Easy Cheesy Vegetarian. 48. Arroz Con Pollo, Lightened Up Gina Homolka Ingredients:  8 skinless chicken thighs 1 Tbsp vinegar 2 tsp Sazon, homemade or Badia Sazon Tropical about 1/2 tsp adobo powder, Goya about 1/2 garlic powder 3 tsp olive oil 1/2 onion 1/4 cup cilantro 3 cloves garlic 5 scallions 2 Tbsp bell pepper 1 medium vine tomato, diced 2 1/2 cups enriched long grain white rice 4 cups water 1 chicken bouillon cube kosher salt to taste, about 2 tsp Directions:  Season chicken with vinegar, 1/2 tsp sazon, adobo and garlic powder and let it sit 10 minutes. Heat a large deep heavy skillet on medium, add 2 tsp oil when hot. Add chicken and brown 5 minutes on each side. Remove and set aside. Place onion, cilantro, garlic, scallions and pepper in mini food processor. Add remaining teaspoon of olive oil to the skillet and sauté onion mixture on medium-low until soft, about 3 minutes. Add tomato, cook another minute. Add rice, mix well and cook another minute. Add water, bouillon (be sure it dissolves well) and remaining sazon, scraping up any browned bits from the bottom of the pot. Taste for salt, should taste salty enough to suit your taste, add more as needed. Add chicken and nestle into rice, bring to a boil. Simmer on medium-low until most of the water evaporates and you see the liquid bubbling at the top of the rice line, then reduce heat to low heat and cover. Make sure the lid has a good seal, no steam should escape (You could place a piece of tin foil or paper towel in between the lid and the pot if steam escapes). Cook 20 minutes without opening the lid. Shut heat off and let it sit with the lid on an additional 10 minutes (don't peek!) Fluff with a fork and eat! Per serving: 410 calories, 8 g fat (2 g sat), 33.5 g protein, 47 g carb, 655mg sodium, 0.5 g sugars, 1 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Gina Homolka of Skinny Taste. 49. Healthy Greek Chicken and Farro Salad Women's Health Ingredients: 1 1/4 cup quick-cooking farro 2 Tbsp olive oil 1/2 small red onion, thinly sliced 4 Tbsp lemon juice Kosher salt and pepper 12 oz boneless, skinless chicken breasts, sliced ½ inch thick 1/4 cup fresh dill, chopped 8 oz grape tomatoes, halved 1/2 seedless cucumber, cut into ½-inch pieces 3 oz baby arugula (about 3 cups) 3 oz feta, crumbled Directions: 1. Cook farro per package directions, then drain, transfer to a large bowl, and toss with 1 Tbsp oil. 2. Meanwhile, in a bowl, toss onion with 2 Tbsp lemon juice and a pinch of salt. Let sit, tossing twice. 3. Heat remaining Tbsp oil in a large skillet on medium-high. Season chicken with ¼ tsp each salt and pepper and cook until golden brown, 8 to 10 minutes. 4. Remove the skillet from heat and stir in remaining 2 Tbsp lemon juice. 5. Add chicken and any juices to farro along with dill, tomatoes, cucumber, and onion (and their juices); toss to combine. Fold in arugula and feta. Per serving: 380 calories, 10 g fat (1.5 g sat), 26 g protein, 198 mg sodium, 44 g carb, 4 g sugar (0 g added sugar), 7 g fiber 50. Instant Pot Beef and Barley Stew Daneille Occhiogrosso Daly Ingredients: 1 lb beef chuck, well trimmed, cut into 2-inch pieces 1 Tbsp all-purpose flour 1 Tbsp olive oil 1 large onion, chopped 4 cloves garlic, smashed 8 sprigs thyme, plus leaves for serving Kosher salt and pepper 1 12-oz bottle beer 1/2 medium butternut squash (1 pound), peeled and seeded, cut into 2-inch pieces 3 medium carrots (about 12 ounces), sliced 3 cup no-salt-added beef broth 1 cup pearled barley Directions: 1. Set Instant Pot to sauté. In a medium bowl, toss beef with flour. Add olive oil to Instant Pot, then cook beef until browned on all sides, 5 to 6 minutes. Transfer beef to a plate. 2. Add onion, garlic, thyme sprigs, and 1/2 teaspoon each salt and pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, 5 to 6 minutes. Stir in beer. Press cancel. 3. Return beef to pot along with squash, carrots, beef stock, and barley. Lock the lid and cook on high pressure 16 minutes. Use quick-release method to release pressure. Serve sprinkled with additional thyme if desired. Per serving: 485 calories, 9 g fat (2 g sat), 35 g protein, 490 mg sodium, 67 g carb, 13 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 51. Coconut-Lime Marinated Shrimp + Voodles Danielle Daly Ingredients: 3 limes 3/4 cup light coconut milk 1 tsp low-sodium soy sauce 2 cloves garlic 1 1-inch piece fresh ginger 1 red chile 1 1/2 cup fresh cilantro 2 scallions, thinly sliced, white and green parts separated 1 large, thick carrot 2 medium zucchini 1 red pepper, thinly sliced 1 lb cooked, peeled, deveined shrimp Directions: Finely grate zest of one lime into a large bowl, then squeeze in juice of all limes (should yield about 1/4 cup). Whisk in coconut milk and soy sauce. Finely grate in garlic, ginger, and 1/2 red chile. Finely chop 1/2 cup cilantro and stir into the bowl along with scallion whites. Thinly slice rest of chile and set aside. Using a spiralizer fitted with the finest noodle blade, spiralize carrot, then use a larger blade to spiralize zucchini. Toss voodles in coconut milk mixture; let sit for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, fold in red pepper, shrimp, and remaining cilantro. Sprinkle with remaining scallions and sliced chile. Per serving: 225 calories, 5.5 g fat (2.5 g sat), 32 g protein, 415 mg sodium, 14 g carb, 7 g sugars, 3 g fiber  52. Grilled Watermelon + Steak Salad CHELSEA KYLE Ingredients: 1 lb sirloin (about 1 inch thick) Kosher salt and pepper 3 Tbsp fresh lemon 2 Tbsp olive oil 2 tsp honey 1/2 small red onion, thinly sliced 1 lb cherry tomatoes, halved 1/2 small seedless watermelon 1 c. fresh mint, leaves torn 1 c. fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves 1 small bunch arugula, thick stems discarded Directions: Heat grill to medium-high. Season steak with 1/2 tsp each salt and pepper and grill to desired doneness (six to eight minutes per side for medium-rare). Transfer to a cutting board and let rest before slicing. Meanwhile, in a bowl, whisk together lemon juice, oil, honey, and a pinch each salt and pepper. Fold in onion and tomatoes. Cut watermelon into 1/2-inch-thick triangles and cut off rinds. Brush lightly with oil, then grill until lightly charred, one to two minutes per side. Divide among four plates. Fold herbs into tomato mixture, then gently toss with arugula. Spoon on top of watermelon and serve with steak. Per serving: 361 calories, 18 g fat (4.5 g sat), 28 g protein, 346 mg sodium, 24 g carb, 16 g sugar, 4.5 g fiber 53. Smashed Pea and Ricotta Pappardelle TK Ingredients: 12 oz pappardelle 1 1/2 c. frozen peas, thawed 1 tsp lemon zest 1/2 c. part-skim ricotta cheese 1/2 tsp kosher salt 1/2 tsp pepper 1/4 c. chives, chopped Directions: Cook pasta per package directions. Reserve 1/2 cup cooking water; drain pasta and return to pot. While pasta is cooking, pulse one cup thawed peas in a food processor until roughly chopped. Add zest and ricotta and pulse a few times to combine, then season with salt and pepper. Toss pasta with ricotta mixture and remaining 1/2 cup peas, adding reserved pasta water if pasta seems dry. Sprinkle with chopped chives and serve. Per serving: 430 calories, 6.5 g fat (2.5 g sat), 19 g protein, 100 mg sodium, 70 g carbs, 5 g fiber 54. Grilled Chicken with Smoky Corn Salad DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 4 6-oz boneless, skinless chicken-breast halves Salt and Pepper 2 limes, halved 4 ears corn, shucked 1/4 c. cilantro, chopped 2 tbsp. chopped green olives 1 oz. Manchego cheese, finely grated 1 1/2 tsp. olive oil 1 tsp. smoked paprika Directions: Season boneless, skinless chicken-breast halves with salt and pepper and grill on medium-high to cook through, 5 to 6 minutes per side. Meanwhile, grill limes, cut sides down, and corn until charred, 6 to 8 minutes. Cut corn from cob and toss in bowl with juice of 2 lime halves, then chopped cilantro, chopped green olives, grated Manchego cheese, and pinch each salt and pepper. Serve chicken with corn and remaining lime halves and drizzle with a mixture of olive oil and smoked paprika. Per serving: 355 calories, 13 g fat (3.5 g saturated), 21 g protein, 315 mg sodium, 21 g carb, 2 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 55. White Bean and Tuna Salad with Basil Vinaigrette DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: Kosher salt and pepper 12 oz. green beans, trimmed and halved 1 small shallot, chopped 1 c. lightly packed basil leaves 3 tbsp. olive oil 1 tbsp. red wine vinegar 4 c. torn lettuce 1 15-oz can small white beans, rinsed 2 5-oz cans solid white tuna in water, drained 4 soft-boiled eggs, halved Directions: Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add 1 tablespoon salt, then green beans, and cook until just tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Drain and rinse under cold water to cool. Meanwhile, in a blender, puree shallot, basil, oil, vinegar, and 1/2 teaspoon each salt and pepper until smooth. Transfer half of dressing to large bowl and toss with green beans. Fold in lettuce, white beans, and tuna and serve with remaining dressing and eggs. Per serving: 340 calories, 16.5 g fat (3 g saturated), 31 g protein, 770 mg sodium, 24 g carb, 8 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 56. Rhubarb and Citrus Salad with Black Pepper Vinaigrette DEA / P.BASSANINI Ingredients: 2 tbsp. honey 2 tbsp. white wine vinegar 3 stalks rhubarb, trimmed and cut into 1-in. pieces 1/4 c. olive oil Kosher salt and pepper 2 Cara Cara oranges 3 oz. baby spinach (about 4 c.) 2 bunches watercress, thick stems removed  1/4 c. toasted pistachios, chopped 1 oz. ricotta salata, shaved Directions: In small bowl, whisk together honey and vinegar. Add rhubarb and toss to coat. Let stand at least 5 minutes and up to 10 minutes, then add olive oil, 1/2 teaspoons salt and 2 teaspoons coarsely ground pepper. Meanwhile, cut away peel and white pith from oranges, then thinly slice. In large bowl, toss spinach and watercress; fold in orange slices and divide among plates. Spoon rhubarb and dressing over each salad and top with pistachios and ricotta salata. Per serving: 280 calories, 19.5 g fat (3.5 g saturated), 5 g protein, 380 mg sodium, 25 g carbohydrate, 4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping.  57. Pot Sticker Stir-Fry DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: Package of vegetable pot stickers or pierogies 2 tbsp. hoisin sauce 2 tbsp. fresh lime juice 1 tbsp. water 1 tbsp. vegetable oil 1 red pepper, thinly sliced 1 yellow pepper, thinly sliced 1 tbsp. finely chopped fresh ginger 1 small red onion, thinly sliced 8 oz. snow peas, halved diagonally Directions: Pan-fry vegetable pot stickers or pierogies in large skillet per package directions; transfer to plate. Whisk together hoisin sauce, fresh lime juice, and water. Add vegetable oil to skillet and heat on medium. Add red pepper, yellow pepper, and finely chopped fresh ginger and cook, tossing frequently, 5 minutes. Add small red onion and cook, tossing, 1 minute. Add snow peas and cook, covered, tossing often, until vegetables are just tender, about 4 minutes. Toss vegetables with sauce and serve with pot stickers. Per serving: 240 calories, 6.5 g fat (0.5 g saturated fat), 7 g protein, 510 mg sodium, 41 g carb, 5 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 58. Grilled Basil Chicken and Zucchini DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 1 c. white rice 1 lime, plus wedges for serving 2 cloves garlic 1 tbsp. low-sodium soy sauce 1/2 tsp. sugar 1/2 red chile, thinly sliced 4 small zucchini (about 1 1/4 lbs), halved lengthwise 2 tbsp. olive oil, divided Kosher salt and pepper 1 lb. chicken tenders 2 1/2 c. basil, roughly chopped Directions: Cook rice per package directions. Zest lime into large bowl, then squeeze in 2 tablespoons juice. Finely grate garlic into bowl, then stir in soy sauce, sugar, and chile. Brush zucchini with 1 tablespoon oil and season with 1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper. Rub chicken tenders with remaining tablespoon oil and season with 1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper. Grill zucchini until just barely tender and chicken until just cooked through, about 3 minutes per side; transfer to cutting board. Cut zucchini and chicken into pieces and toss in sauce; fold in basil and serve over rice with lime wedges. Per serving: 400 calories, 10.5 g fat (1.5 g saturated), 29 g protein, 450 mg sodium, 46 g carb, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 59. Chicago-Style Chicken Dogs DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 2 jarred pepperoncini peppers, thinly sliced, plus 1 Tbsp brine 1 tsp. honey 1 tsp. yellow mustard, plus more for serving 1 tsp. poppy seeds 1/4 small sweet onion, thinly sliced 4 fully cooked chicken sausages 4 hot dog buns 2 small plum tomatoes, sliced into half-moons 4 dill pickle spears 1 small romaine heart, thinly sliced (about 3 cups) Directions: Heat grill to medium. In a bowl, whisk together pepperoncini brine, honey, and mustard; stir in poppy seeds. Add pepperoncini peppers and onion and toss to coat. Grill sausages, turning occasionally, until lightly charred and heated through, 10 to 12 minutes. If desired, grill buns. Stuff sausages into buns along with tomatoes and pickles. Toss poppy seeds and onions with romaine and spoon on top of sausages. Serve with remaining romaine mixture and extra mustard if desired. Per serving: 490 calories, 16 g fat (3 g saturated), 18 g protein, 520 mg sodium, 66 g carb, 6 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 60. Steak and Rye Panzanella DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 2 tsp. caraway seeds 2 tbsp. red wine vinegar 4 tbsp. olive oil, divided 1 tbsp. whole-grain mustard 1 clove garlic, pressed Kosher salt and pepper 1 bulb fennel, quartered 1 medium red onion, sliced into rounds 3 slices rye bread (1 inch thick) 1 large bunch kale, leaves chopped (about 10 cups) 1 lb. sirloin steak Directions: Toast caraway seeds in a small skillet on medium, about 2 minutes. In a small bowl, whisk together vinegar, 2 tablespoons oil, mustard, garlic, caraway seeds, and ¼ teaspoon salt. Heat grill or grill pan on medium-high. Brush fennel, onion, and bread with 1 tablespoon oil and season fennel and onion with a pinch salt. Grill, covered, turning often, until vegetables are tender and charred and bread is toasted, 5 to 8 minutes for vegetables and 1 to 2 minutes for bread. Transfer to cutting board; core and thinly slice fennel and tear bread into chunks. In a large bowl, toss kale, grilled vegetables, and bread with half of dressing and let sit, tossing occasionally. Meanwhile, rub steak with remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil and season with ½ teaspoon each salt and pepper. Grill to desired doneness, 4 to 6 minutes per side for medium-rare. Transfer to cutting board and let rest 5 minutes before slicing. Fold into salad and drizzle with remaining vinaigrette. Per serving: 435 calories, 23 g fat (5 g saturated), 29 g protein, 735 mg sodium, 28 g carb, 6 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 61. Cheesy Tex-Mex Stuffed Chicken DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 2 scallions (thinly sliced) 2 seeded jalapeños (thinly sliced) 1 1/4 c. cilantro 1 tsp. lime zest 4 oz. Monterey Jack cheese (coarsely grated) 4 small boneless, skinless chicken breasts 3 tbsp. olive oil Salt Pepper 3 tbsp. lime juice 2 bell peppers (thinly sliced) 1/2 small red onion (thinly sliced) 5 c. torn romaine lettuce Directions: Heat oven to 450°F. In bowl, combine scallions and seeded jalapeños, 1/4 cup cilantro (chopped) and lime zest, then toss with Monterey Jack cheese. Insert knife into thickest part of each of boneless, skinless chicken breasts and move back and forth to create 2 1/2-inch pocket that is as wide as possible without going through. Stuff chicken with cheese mixture. Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in large skillet on medium. Season chicken with salt and pepper and cook until golden brown on 1 side, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn chicken over and roast until cooked through, 10 to 12 minutes. Meanwhile, in large bowl, whisk together lime juice, 1 tablespoon olive oil and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Add bell peppers and red onion and let sit 10 minutes, tossing occasionally. Toss with romaine lettuce and 1 cup fresh cilantro. Serve with chicken and lime wedges. Per serving: 360 calories, 22 g fat (7.5 g saturated), 32 g protein, 715 mg sodium, 10 g carb, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping.  62. Herb-Roasted Chicken and Cherry Tomatoes  DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 1 tsp. plus 1 Tbsp oil 2 large bone-in chicken breasts (about 12 oz each) 3/4 tsp. salt 3/4 tsp. pepper 1 lb. cherry tomatoes (halved) 1 sprig rosemary 1 tsp. fennel seeds (crushed) 1 c. instant polenta 1 tsp. red wine vinegar 1/4 c. parsley (chopped) Directions: Heat oven to 450°F. Heat 1 teaspoon oil in large oven-safe skillet on medium. Season chicken breasts with 1/2 teaspoon each salt and pepper. Cook, skin sides down, until golden brown and crisp, 5 to 7 minutes. Turn; add cherry tomatoes, rosemary and fennel seeds; drizzle with 1 tablespoon oil and season with 1/4 teaspoon each salt and pepper, then roast until chicken is just cooked through and tomatoes have begun to break down, 12 to 15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare polenta. Discard rosemary; transfer chicken to cutting board and let rest 5 minutes. Stir red wine vinegar into tomatoes, then toss with parsley. Remove bone from chicken, slice and serve on polenta. Top with tomatoes. Per serving: 445 calories, 17.5 g fat (4 g saturated), 32 g protein, 455 mg sodium, 37 g carb, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 63. Red Curry Shrimp and Cilantro Rice DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 1 c. long-grain white rice 1 tsp. grated lime zest 2 tbsp. fresh lime juice 1 c. cilantro (chopped) 1 tbsp. canola oil 1 1-inch piece ginger (cut into matchsticks) 2 cloves garlic (thinly sliced) 2 tbsp. Thai red curry paste 1 13.5-oz can light coconut milk 1 tbsp. fish sauce 1 1/2 lb. baby bok choy (4 to 6 heads, trimmed and leaves separated, large leaves halved lengthwise) 1 lb. peeled and deveined shrimp Directions: Cook long-grain white rice. Fluff with fork and fold in grated lime zest and cilantro. Heat canola oil in large skillet on medium. Add ginger and garlic, and sauté 2 minutes. Stir in Thai red curry paste and cook 2 minutes. Stir in light coconut milk and fish sauce and simmer 3 minutes. Stir in baby bok choy and peeled and deveined shrimp and cook until shrimp are opaque throughout, 3 to 4 minutes. Stir in fresh lime juice. Serve over rice with additional cilantro, sliced red chiles, and lime wedges if desired. Per serving: 405 calories, 11 g fat (6.5 g saturated), 24 g protein, 1,570 mg sodium, 51 g carb, 4 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 64. Grilled Pork with Charred Harissa Broccoli DANIELLE OCCHIOGROSSO DALY Ingredients: 2 lemons 1 1/2 lb. pork tenderloin 3 tbsp. plus 1 tsp olive oil Kosher salt Pepper 1 large head broccoli (about 1 1/4 lbs), trimmed and cut into large florets 2 tbsp. harissa Directions: Heat grill to medium-high. Finely grate zest of 1 lemon and set aside, then cut both lemons in half. Brush pork with 1 teaspoon oil and season with 1/2 teaspoon salt. Grill pork, turning occasionally, until it reaches 140°F on instant-read thermometer, 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer to cutting board and let rest at least 5 minutes. Meanwhile, coat broccoli with 1 tablespoon olive oil and grill along with pork, turning often, until just tender and charred. Grill lemon until charred, 1 to 2 minutes. Mix harissa with remaining 2 tablespoon oil and toss with broccoli; sprinkle with lemon zest. Squeeze lemon halves over pork, then slice pork. Serve with broccoli and grilled lemon wedges. Per serving: 330 calories, 16.5 g fat (3.5 g saturated), 38 g protein, 385 mg sodium, 8 g carb, 3 g fiber Recipe courtesy of Good Housekeeping. 65. Loaded Spaghetti Lisa Shin Ingredients: 1 cup sliced bell pepper 1/2 cup sliced red onion 1 tsp olive oil 1 cup cooked whole-wheat spaghetti  2/3 cup cooked edamame Directions: Sauté peppers and onions in oil until onions are translucent. Toss with pasta and edamame. Per serving: 420 cal 66. Cookout for One Lisa Shin Ingredients: 1 organic beef hot dog 1/2 cup organic baked beans 1 whole-wheat hot dog bun 1/2 Tbsp whole-grain mustard 1/2 Tbsp sweet relish 1 cup sliced honeydew melon Directions: Cook hot dog, and heat baked beans in a saucepan. Serve hot dog in the bun, topped with mustard and relish, with beans and melon on the side. Per serving: 490 cal 67. Summer Farrotto Lisa Shin Ingredients: 1 boneless, skinless chicken breast (3 oz) 2 Tbsp olive oil, divided 1/4 cup sliced red onion 1 cup diced yellow squash 1/2 cup dry farro 1 Tbsp chopped parsley  1 Tbsp grated Parmesan cheese Directions: Pan-sear chicken in 1 Tbsp oil, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste, then dice. Sauté onion and squash with remaining oil. Stir in farro until coated in oil. Add 2/3 cup water, bring to a boil, stir, reduce heat, and cover. Cook 20 minutes or until soft. Stir in chicken, parsley, and cheese, and serve. Per serving: 490 cal 68. Beef and Veggie Salad Bowl Levi Brown Ingredients: 2 Tbsp dry red quinoa 2 cups mesclun greens 3 oz cooked lean beef, cubed 1/2 cup chopped broccoli florets 1/4 red bell pepper, chopped 2 tsp olive oil 1 tsp red wine vinegar Directions: Cook quinoa as directed. Toss with greens, beef, broccoli, and pepper in a bowl. Whisk oil and vinegar for dressing. Per serving: 320 cal 69. Bow Ties with Spring Vegetables Mitch Mandel Ingredients: 2 oz dry whole-grain farfalle pasta  2 tsp olive oil  1/2 cup artichoke hearts  1/4 cup sliced red onion  1/4 cup peas  1 Tbsp chopped fresh mint Directions: Cook pasta as directed and toss with oil, vegetables, and mint. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Per serving: 370 cal 70. Half-Homemade Soup with Asparagus Levi Brown Ingredients: 4 oz boneless, skinless chicken breast 1 cup Amy's Organic Chunky Vegetable soup  2 Tbsp dry quinoa 1 cup chopped kale 10 small asparagus spears 2 tsp soy sauce  1/8 tsp grated fresh ginger Directions: Bake chicken at 350°F for 25 minutes, then shred with a fork. Meanwhile, combine soup, quinoa, and kale in a saucepan, bring to a boil, and simmer until quinoa is done, about 15 minutes. Add chicken. Steam asparagus, then toss with soy sauce and ginger. Serve asparagus on the side. Per serving: 330 cal 71. Pork with Veggies Levi Brown Ingredients: 1 pork tenderloin (4 oz) 1 cup steamed green beans 2 Tbsp sliced almonds 1 baked sweet potato Directions: Season pork with salt and pepper, sear in an ovenproof skillet coated with cooking spray, and transfer to a 450°F oven for 15 minutes. Slice and serve with green beans topped with almonds, and a sweet potato. Per serving: 370 cal 72. Pizza Party Levi Brown Ingredients: 1 Amy's Light 'N Lean Italian Vegetable Pizza 3 oz broccoli slaw 1/4 cup black beans 1/4 cup sliced scallions 1 tsp olive oil 1 oz lemon juice Directions: Bake pizza. Blend slaw, beans, scallions, oil, and lemon juice, and serve on the side. Per serving: 400 cal
