Title: Half Baked Harvest Butternut Squash And Apple Pizza Recipe

Text: Mike Garten Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Yields: 4 servings Prep Time: 0 hours 15 mins Cook Time: 0 hours 15 mins Total Time: 0 hours 30 mins Ingredients 1 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for greasing 2 shallots, thinly sliced 1/2 lb. store-bought pizza dough 2 tbsp. apple butter 1 Honeycrisp apple, thinly sliced 1 c. shredded mozzarella cheese 1/2 c. shredded sharp cheddar cheese 1/2 small butternut squash, shaved into ribbons using a vegetable peeler 8 fresh sage leaves 3 oz. thinly sliced prosciutto, torn Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper Crushed red pepper flakes 2 oz. blue cheese, crumbled (optional) Honey, for drizzling Fresh thyme leaves, for serving This ingredient shopping module is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content on their web site. Directions Preheat the oven to 450°F. Grease a baking sheet. Heat the 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a medium skillet over high heat. When the oil shimmers, add the shallots and cook until fragrant, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove the skillet from the heat. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out the dough to a ¼-inch thickness. Carefully transfer the dough to the prepared baking sheet. Spread the apple butter over the dough, leaving a 1-inch border. Add the sautéed shallots and the apple slices. Layer on the mozzarella and cheddar, then top with the butternut squash, sage, and prosciutto. Season the pizza with a pinch each of salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes and sprinkle the blue cheese (if using) on top. Bake until the crust is golden and the cheese has melted, 10 to 15 minutes. Drizzle with honey and sprinkle with thyme to finish. Slice and serve. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io