Title: Maserati Levante Trofeo and GTS confirmed for the UK

Text: Two new V8 versions of the Maserati Levante SUV have been confirmed for the UK after an initial roll-out into China and the US. Both the Levante Trofeo and GTS were revealed last year, but had yet to be confirmed for British consumption, until now. Both models will arrive in the UK this Autumn, with prices starting at £104,900 for the GTS and rising to £124,900 and £159,900 for the Trofeo and limited-edition Trofeo Launch Edition, respectively. The inherited changes over standard Levantes are most abundant under the skin, with both models featuring the Ferrari-built 3.8-litre twin-turbo V8 found in the Quattroporte GTS. This is not the same F154 engine as in various front-engined Ferraris, rather a different unit built alongside it on the Maranello production line. It’s a slower-revving unit, with a deeper and flatter power and torque curve to better suit the bigger, heavier bodies of its new applications. > Click here for our review of the Maserati Levante S Peak power for the Levante GTS is rated at 523bhp and the model shares much of its interior and exterior decoration with the lesser Levante S. The Trofeo is a more serious proposition, powered by a 572bhp version of the same twin-turbocharged V8 engine. Power is sent to all four wheels via an eight-speed automatic transmission sourced from ZF. Bespoke to the Trofeo is a new Corsa function within the drive modes, which integrates new engine and transmission mapping, stability and traction control settings and a new launch function. When so selected, the Levante Trofeo will reach 62mph in 4.1sec – the same time as a standard Porsche Cayenne Turbo S. It’ll top out at 186mph, or an even 300kph in new money, making it one of the fastest SUVs you can buy – if that sort of thing floats your boat. Separating the Levante Trofeo from its lesser siblings on the outside are standard 21-inch alloy wheels (22s are on the options list), a bespoke vented bonnet, carbonfibre trim elements within both front and rear bumpers and bespoke badging – including a unique trident. A limited-run Launch Edition adds to this some unique colour and trim options inside and out. It’s available in one of three exterior colours, combined with a black leather interior with contrasting stitching to match the exterior. Bespoke matte-finish carbon inlays complete the package on this model which will be limited to just 50 units in Europe.