Title: Dirty Text Message Tips And Examples From Experts

Text: Sexting is, no doubt, an art of the 21st century. Not only is it a spicy way to connect on another level with your partner, but it also boosts trust, says psychotherapist and sex therapist Pia Holec, PsyD . “We’re communicating about what we want to do to one another,” she says. But if you’ve ever sent a sext that felt so embarrassing or feel like you need to be a sex goddess to even partake, you may have thrown out the idea with your old flip phone. “There’s a fear sexting will be awkward, or you’ll have to create a certain environment you’re not used to,” Holec says. “That builds to an, ‘Oh my gosh, what am I going to sound like?’” Nope, there's no need to think up some X-rated smut if that’s not your thing. Instead, use language you already use to flirt and tease your partner. If you’re struggling with a prompt, Holec suggests drawing from past memories or where you like to be touched (by yourself or a partner), and setting the mood from there. Remember: “Sexting is all the things,” sexologist Shamyra Howard , LCSW says. Think pictures (sans face JIC), porn clips, voice notes, erotica, etc. Or, you can give your partner positive affirmations or talk about a new toy you’re about to take for a spin. But, before you hit send on a steamy sext, ask your partner if this is even a thing they want to do, Howard says. Outline your boundaries. Maybe photos are cool, but texts about group sex aren’t. And if the conversation feels uncomfy at any time, an established safe word (like the one you use in the bedroom) can come in handy here too, Holec says. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Sometimes sexting is more about creating and teasing a fantasy rather than an orgasm, sexpert and Sweet Vibes spokesperson Tyomi Morgan says. And while it can be super hot to put those sexts into action the next time you see your partner, Howard says you can sext just to enjoy the eroticism, too. Whether you’re a newbie who wants to learn how to sext your partner or a seasoned pro who wants to surprise your special someone with some new ~tricks~, these expert-recommended sexts will help you nail the digital dirty talk your way.  When You’re Feeling Nostalgic When You Send A Photo Of A Sex Position You’d Like To Try When You Want To Pique Their Interest When You Need A Midday Pick-Me-Up When You’re Feeling Playful When You Want To ~Test The Waters~ When You Want To Give Kudos When You Want To Play With Your New Toy When You’re Feeling Kinky When You Want To Know If This Is A Good Time When You Don’t Know What To Say But Don’t Want To Stop When You Want To Channel Your Inner Romantic When You're In The Mood For Teasing When You Wake Up From A Steamy Dream When You Want To Paint A Visual When You’re Feeling Complimentary When You’re Ready To Explore When You’ve Done Your Research When You Want To Quell Your Hunger When You Send A Photo Of A Toy When You Want To Give Them A Little Control When You’re Daydreaming About Last Night When You Send Photos Taking Off Your Favorite Lingerie One Piece At A Time When You’re Counting Down The Minutes When You Want All The Foreplay When You Need To Pencil Them In When You Want To Get Inside Their...Head When You Want To Turn It Up To 100 When You Want To Play Pretend Via Video When You Want To Give Words Of Affirmation Via Voice Messages When You Want To Bring A Fantasy To Life When You Want To Engage The Senses When You Set The Stage When You Make The Rules When You Want To Share What You Like To Do When You’re Missing Them When It’s All Said And Done This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io