Title: Maserati Levante GTS revealed at Goodwood – look out Cayenne Turbo

Text: The Maserati Levante SUV has been crying out for a V8 engine since its initial release back in 2016, and now within just four months a second V8 model has been revealed. To sit in the range alongside the wild 581bhp Trofeo that was revealed at the New York motor show earlier this year, the new Levante GTS is a (slightly) milder V8-powered model, perfectly placed to take on the Porsche Cayenne Turbo, if Maserati decides to bring it to the UK. Compared to the Porsche, the Levante GTS’ figures are almost spookily close, sharing an identical power figure of 542bhp and only giving away 30lb ft of torque to the Porsche at 538lb ft. The two share a similar drivetrain, too, both driving all four wheels through an eight-speed torque converter automatic gearbox. > Click here for more on the Maserati Levante Trofeo Both the GTS and Trofeo feature the ‘V90’ architecture 3.9-litre twin-turbocharged V8 engine, developed and built in Maranello by Ferrari. Despite the Levante’s two-ton-plus kerb weight, the GTS will reach 62mph in 4.2sec, and go on to a top speed of 181mph. The Trofeo, for context, is 0.3sec faster to 62mph at 3.9sec, and will reach a 186mph top speed. The GTS also shares similar new styling to the Trofeo, although it replaces that car’s carbonfibre flashes on the nose, sills and rear diffuser with body-coloured elements. The GTS also does without the new vented bonnet, although it does pick up the same new LED headlights and a fresh set of 21-inch alloys (an inch down on the Trofeo’s 22-inch items). Coinciding with the new GTS, the rest of the Levante range has also been given a spruce up, with the same ‘Gransport’ bodywork from the GTS available on the lesser S model, alongside other new wheel designs and exterior colours. The Levante’s interior has also picked up a few upgrades, including a new gear selector and the option of Pieno Fiore full-grain leather, the sort that is usually applied to high-end leather goods and furniture, as opposed to automotive interiors. Both the GTS and Trofeo will be on show at the Goodwood Festival of Speed, but are still yet to be confirmed for the UK market in case you were about to rush down to your local Maserati dealer to place an order.