Title: Opinion | Joe Biden Has Something Else He’d Like to Transform

Text: Gail: How about — masks? This may be a point of agreement, but I am really tired of wearing a mask when I walk the dog at 9 p.m. Bret: So here’s a subject that will get me into even deeper trouble …. Gail: My neighborhood jumped into the mask moment fast, possibly because it seemed like something that would drive Donald Trump crazy. And I was proud of everyone for being so responsible. Now the situation’s evolved. I fully understand why none of them — including me — wants to be the unmasked civil disobedience pioneer. But I also hate walking around not being able to recognize my neighbors because all our faces are covered. Bret: Yes! This is a subject that drives me nuts. The weight of scientific evidence suggests the risk of getting Covid while walking outdoors is very, very low, at least if you’re not in some kind of crowd. And yet many state and local governments — along with an army of busybodies — insist on it because there is still a theoretical risk, which might also be said of being crushed by falling jet engine debris or attacked by a rabid bobcat. Gail: I’m not sure those comparisons work unless your town had an epidemic of jet-part showers. Or was invaded last year by a pack of bobcats on a regular basis. Sorry, go on. Bret: You must have missed the bobcat attack video that went viral last week. Anyway, it irks me when people who otherwise insist they are “following the science” suddenly choose to ignore the science because their gut tells them that they should be wearing a mask when they don’t need to, or because they like to parade their virtue. I also note that there are 13 states that have lifted mask restrictions and most have not seen major upticks in Covid infections. Since we are on the subject, what’s your feeling about vaccine passports? Gail: Well, our government doesn’t seem to have any plans to require them. I can understand why private businesses might want their work force to have proof of inoculation. Or if I was going on — God protect me — a cruise ship, I’d want to be confident the other passengers had been vaccinated. You? Bret: I get the argument for them. Israel, which has done better than most countries when it comes to Covid, has used them to return to more-or-less normal life.