Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Bowl Of 'Oatmeal' From Cyst In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a broken-down, liquefied cyst. The dermatologist slices open the skin and squeezes all the contents out with her fingers. Dr. Pimple Popper compares the contents to oatmeal as they come spilling out all over. Does anybody love a bowl of oatmeal for breakfast in the mornings? Well, if you answered yes I highly recommend heading elsewhere RN. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is working on a giant cyst and ruining your fave breakfast simultaneously. She's seriously talented, and this massive cyst is seriously stuffed. You probably guessed what's lurking inside the behemoth bump already. There's tons of oatmeal just waiting to be squeezed out. Dr. Pimple Popper gives a very clear warning in the caption: "Oatmeal before bed? 🤪#drpimplepopper #shockingvideos" It's shocking and this is your last chance to watching something else before oatmeal is forever ruined. Consider yourself warned. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The video begins with a mid-procedure view of the patient and the cyst. Dr. Pimple Popper is slicing open the skin with her scalpel and is almost ready to squeeze. The cyst also looks ready to blow with the contents already bubbling up. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper gives a bit of background detail: "When cysts get really large they have a propensity to break down and liquefy." This one surely did. Dr. Pimple Popper squeezes and chunks and liquid come pouring out. Not everyone saw oatmeal gurgle out. One fan wrote, "Oatmeal🤔 more like gumbo 🤣" Another fan added, "The release must’ve felt so amazing for this person!" It certainly felt good watching, so you can guess how the patient felt. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io