Title: Toyota Supra reproduction parts available soon

Text: Toyota’s still drumming up a buzz about its latest A90 Supra, but the company hasn’t forgotten the car’s much-loved predecessors, and has announced plans to reproduce and sell various parts for the A70 and A80 generation cars. The GR Heritage Parts Project will generate a new supply of parts that had previously become unavailable, enabling owners to keep running older Supras for years to come. With Supra values currently escalating, the parts should also make restorations easier and reduce the reliance on used or aftermarket components. A full list of parts will be announced in due course, but in the meantime Toyota has confirmed the availability of a range of parts for the A70 Supra, which ran from 1986 until 1993, including brand new propeller shafts, door handles, the fuel sender gauge, weatherstrips and front emblems. > New Toyota Supra review – Japan's sports car hero driven on road and track Customers restoring the A80, popularised through video games like Gran Turismo and movies like The Fast & The Furious, will have access to new headlamps, door handles, and brake boosters, among other parts. You’ll be able to purchase the parts through Gazoo Racing’s website, but also through regular Toyota dealerships – and the service will be offered worldwide. Toyota is far from being the first Japanese manufacturer to commit to supplying parts for some of its more iconic models though. In Japan, Mazda recently started a full restoration programme for the first-generation MX-5, going as far as to speak to suppliers like Nardi and Bridgestone to reproduce original steering wheels and tyres. The service hasn’t yet expanded to Europe or the United States, though there are plans to spread it to the latter soon. Similarly confined to Japan, Honda has begun reproducing components for two of its 1990s sports cars – the range-topping NSX, and the small but perfectly-formed Beat kei-class roadster. Nissan too has begun to reproduce components, including whole body panels, for its R32, R33 and R34 Skyline GT-Rs.