Title: Limited-run Ford Fiesta ST Edition revealed - hot hatch receives performance and styling tweaks

Text: Following in the footsteps of 2019’s Performance Edition, Ford has now revealed its second limited-run Fiesta ST, this time imaginatively named ‘ST Edition’. Available only in three-door form, just 300 examples are set to hit UK roads, and it’ll set you back £27,075; a hefty premium over the £22,275 entry-level ST-2. Ford Performance has made a number of tweaks in efforts to improve handling that were refined at the Nürburgring, while also applying unique aesthetic touches both inside and out to set it apart from an ordinary ST. > Ford reveals limited-run Fiesta ST Performance Edition Perhaps a little less divisive than the Deep Orange of the Performance Edition is the new Azura Blue paint, a shade previously available only as part of the marque’s Special Vehicle Options range. Contrasting gloss black elements can be found on the rear diffuser, roof spoiler and grille, while the charge cooler and lower grille are finished in matte black – the ST badges even feature gloss black details to match. The 10-spoke 18-inch flow-formed alloy wheels are shared with the previous Performance Edition model, albeit finished in gloss black. Each wheel saves 2kg per corner over the standard ST, reducing unsprung mass, working in conjunction with the uprated suspension. Also shared with the previous Performance Edition are the same two-way adjustable coilover suspension with twin-tube stainless steel damper housings and powder coated Ford Performance Blue springs. There are a total of 12 bump and 16 rebound settings, and variable ride height that are manually adjustable – out of the box, the setup lowers the model by 15mm at the front and 10mm at the rear. The engine has remained untouched, with the 1.5-litre turbocharged three-cylinder sending the same 197bhp and 214lb ft of torque to the front wheels through a six-speed manual ‘box – the 0-62mph sprint is claimed at 6.5sec, with top speed at 143mph Inside, Ford has included unique blue stitching to match the exterior paint, buckets of ST branding on the floor mats, seatbelts and Recaro sports seats and most notably, a new steering wheel featuring a dedicated button for the Sport drive mode – a feature exclusive to the ST Edition. As found in the ST-3, the standard-fit Performance Pack adds a Quaife limited-slip differential, launch control and shift lights in the instrument cluster, with the same Normal, Sport and Track drive modes available for the driver. The Ford Fiesta ST Edition will set you back £27,075, and just 300 units will hit UK shores – a total of 500 will be produced for Europe.