Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Crater Dilated Pore Of Winer In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she tackled a massive dilated pore of winer that's too big for her standard comedone extractor tool. She uses what looks like a can or bottle opener to press out all the gunk stuck under the skin. Dr. Pimple Popper's new tool, crater left behind, and popping skills get all the praise from fans. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is cruising into the weekend. She knows her fans need some satisfying popping action to help them through Friday, and she's all over it. The derm has knocked out some out-of-this-world pimples lately, like a chorizo-shaped lipoma, cysts stuffed with gnocchi, and a narwhal horn of a blackhead. Her new Instagram video is even more satisfying with a ginormous dilated pore of winer as the star. Dr. Pimple Popper is back and ready to face off with the worthy opponent. This dilated pore of winer looks like a ton of blackheads ganged up to form a super blackhead. She explains in the caption: "I heard we’re going to the moon? I’ll bring the blackheads and my giant comedone extractor! #drpimplepopper #dogecoin" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Fans don't have to wait any longer for the satisfying DPOW. It is primed and ready to be popped right before your eyes. Dr. Pimple Popper grabs an oversized comedone extractor tool and gets to work. She presses and all kinds of gunk starts squishing out. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. It looks like a bottomless pit of mush. Each time she squeezes, more emerges. "That thing had to be in there for YEARS!!!" Dr. Pimple Popper doesn't reveal the age of the DPOW, but that sounds like a solid guess. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io