Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Eggplant' Cheek Cyst In New Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a man with a wide variety of pimples around his face. She focuses on one surprisingly large cyst on his cheek. Dr. Pimple Popper uses the punch biopsy tool and squeezes with her fingers to squish an "eggplant" out. Do you feel like you need to watch pimple popping videos from dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, on the reg? You're not alone, and the doc knows it. So, she's always ready with a new satisfying video for her fans. And, Dr. Pimple Popper encourages everyone who sees it to tag a friend in need of some popping. It's no surprise her latest Instagram video got fans tagging as fast as their fingers would let them when prompted "TAG someone who needs this💥." Dr. Pimple Popper helped a patient with many skin concerns. Her focus in the clip is one particularly stuffed cyst, and it's so satisfying. Dr. Pimple Popper started with her punch biopsy tool. She plunged it in the man's cheek and created a small circular opening. Then, the derm used her fingers to squeeze. What emerged from the skin can best be described by her loyal fans. One wrote, "I’m not gonna say it... I’m not gonna say it.... 🤭🍆" This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. A whole crew of commenters quickly agreed. One careful observer added, "had to watch it twice and damn right at the beginning it looked like it." That wasn't all they saw, though. Another fan commented, "Literally looks like a clogged artery from a heart.. but coming out of a face! 👏" Or consider an alternative suggestion: "It looks like taffy candy" Whatever "it" was that came out of the cyst, the contents keep growing and growing as Dr. Pimple Popper squeezes. "It just keeps going!" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io