Title: SZA Shows Off Abs And Her Spot On The Charts In Bikini Instagrams

Text: SZA took to her Instagram to post a series of pics showing off her seriously in-shape bikini body, while also celebrating her #7 spot on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for her song with Doja Cat called "Kiss Me More." And Lizzo was here for the one photo in particular: "Bitch the last slide lol," she wrote in the comments. When it comes to her fitness routine, the "Hit Different" singer prefers to get outside. SZA has a lot to celebrate. The singer, 30, took to her Instagram to post a series of pics showing off her seriously in-shape bikini body, while also celebrating her #7 spot on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for her song with Doja Cat called "Kiss Me More." "I’ve tried to post this 3 times I quit lol," she captioned the pics. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. In the pics, SZA is rocking a black and white printed bikini in the pics, showing off her toned abs. Besides the nod to her Billboard chart accomplishment, she also posted a few slides with poems and inspirational motivators. Oh, and her final slide was meant to make us LOL: it's a dog dressed in fleece PJ's sitting in a chair, sipping on a juice box. And Lizzo was here for the last slide in particular. "Bitch the last slide lol," she commented. But her other friends and followers were also loving the snaps. "wowww show me your ways 😭😍😍," singer Chloe Bailey commented, singer Tinashe wrote, "Sheesh!!", and Erica Mena left her a bunch of emojis, "🔥😍🔥". When it comes to her fitness routine, the "Hit Different" singer prefers to get outside. "I hit the forest, or I hit the park, or I do a lot of walks, a lot of exercises," she told Billboard. "Sitting still and meditating is a component for me, but it's not my key component. I need to be outside amongst trees, and among anything nature-based. I'll drive really far to get there and I don't mind." This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. She also does some resistance band work, hinting at it with an Instagram selfie she shared back in December 2020. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And her diet is mostly veggie-based. She shared on Twitter: "Really don’t know a name for it lmao no red meat (mostly fish) no dairy no wheat no sugar.. high veggie ..complex carbs only (squash , avocado . sweet potato ect) hella water dassii." This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Really don’t know a name for it lmao🤔 no red meat (mostly fish ) no dairy no wheat no sugar.. high veggie ..complex carbs only (squash , avocado . sweet potato ect) hella water dassii https://t.co/U8gw0AxdEq — SZA (@sza) December 30, 2019 She's also shared about her own weight loss journey in the past, when she once weighed 200 pounds. "I’ve consistently been dressing in baggy clothes because I was heavy. I was 200 pounds, but that’s not really public knowledge. I was a lot bigger, so wearing baggy clothes [was] not so much as a '90s thing, it was what was comfortable and what fit," she told Coveteur. "When I lost weight I didn’t want to wear baggy clothes anymore. I worked really hard not to have to wear baggy clothes. And now I just feel like it’s how I’m generally comfortable. Instead of doing just what was available, I can wear what I want, and that’s a blessing." This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io