Title: Eniko And Kevin Hart's Body Language Explained By An Expert

Text: Eniko and Kevin Hart’s marriage has been put to the test more than once. Nearly two years after Kevin proposed, the couple got married in a beautiful ceremony in Santa Barbara. Just one year after that, in 2017, the couple announced they were expecting their first child together (Kevin’s third including his children from his previous marriage), a son named Kenzo. But when Eniko was eight months pregnant, she says she received a direct message on Instagram which included a video of Kevin cheating on her in Las Vegas. The couple opened up about the experience in Kevin’s 2019 Netflix documentary Kevin Hart: Don’t F**k This Up. In it, the comedian describes the alleged 10-million-dollar extortion attempt orchestrated by his former friend who threatened to release the video. As a result, Kevin took to Instagram himself and shared he'd made a "bad error in judgement" apologized to Eniko and children. “It’s the most difficult test ever,” Hart told People in 2018 about the scandal. But, the couple stayed together, determined to work things out for each other and for their son. “I wasn’t ready at the time to just give up on my family. I wanted Kenzo to be able to know his dad…,” Eniko said in the doc. Nearly two years later, Kevin and two others were rushed to the hospital following a car crash in Calabasas. Eniko was by his side as he recovered from back surgery. Kevin told the Hollywood Reporter in 2019, “Wow. This is love. This is what real love and life is,” as he described the close watch his family kept over him. The accident, he says, gave him a new outlook on life. It hasn’t been an easy road for the couple, but they’ve come out on the other side. “The tests we’ve passed made us love each other even more,” Hart said. “It made us understand our bond even more.” And this is something body language expert Karen Donaldson says is true based on the couple's gestures over the years. Sure, they’ve had hard times, but Eniko and Kevin's love is still strong.