Title: Apple's New iPad Pro Is 2024's Best Tablet

Text: (Image: Apple) Apple has redefined the tablet, again. The new iPad Pro comes with a new vision of what we're supposed to be doing with tablets, why we're supposed to be doing it, and what we're supposed to be doing it for. And as has happened in the past, Apple is ahead of the game—maybe dangerously so. Apple's new iPad Pros are more powerful, purely on a hardware basis, than many Macs. Their greatest power is that they're integrated. With their cameras and 5G, they're a TV studio in a box. The new 12.9-inch Pro, especially, is designed to be an all-in-one solution to create high-res and AR content. No other tablet integrates these specs. It has a high-quality main camera, as good as an iPhone's, with distance-judging LiDAR for AR creation. Those images get fed into the desktop-class M1 processor and up to 2TB storage, and edited on a mini-LED display with extremely controllable backlights, similar to the huge, heavy Apple Pro Display XDR. Then the content gets pumped out over a 5G modem with a 3Gbps peak upload speed. All of this comes in a package which weighs 1.5 pounds and is only a quarter inch thick. At least that's how it's supposed to work. Image: Apple But a computing ecosystem isn't a one-company job, much as Apple would like it to be. And too much of what Apple is trying to achieve with these tablets isn't here yet. Take 5G, Apple's solution for uploading high-res video anywhere. OpenSignal says current 5G networks in the US have upload speeds of 8-14Mbps—slow enough that you'd want to wait for Wi-Fi. C-band will change that, but it'll only be nationwide in 2024. Or AR. The iPad Pro is more clearly designed for creating AR content than any device I've ever seen. But tablet-based consumer AR apps have fallen pretty flat. We need glasses; Microsoft's HoloLens costs $3,500, and reports say that Apple will have affordable consumer AR glasses around 2025. She's waiting for AT&T 5G to upload her video. She'll be waiting a while. (Image: Apple) Meanwhile, Apple's iPadOS itself struggles with the powerful workflows that Apple's hardware is now suggesting. The iPad Pro now supports 6K Thunderbolt monitors, but with a few clunky exceptions, iPadOS only allows you to mirror, not extend your display. The iPad Pro takes huge, fast external storage devices. But the files on that drive don't appear integrated with your internal storage. Microsoft's Surface tablets don't have the world-changing ambitions of the new iPads, but they're more aligned to today's workflows. Most workers would rather have mundane apps with multiple resizable windows and a fully accessible file system, than the ability to create brilliant new forms of content for devices that don't exist yet. I'm reminded of Apple's 2018 iPad education event, which introduced new iPads at a school in Chicago. At the time, cheap Chromebooks were starting to take off in schools, and Apple wanted to position the iPad as a more powerful, more creative alternative. The company made a great pitch. It showed how AR and Pencil-based apps could enhance science education, the arts, and even math. It showed how well-trained, creative teachers, with creative curricula, could make school more interactive, colorful, and fun. Apple was absolutely right: it was showing a better world with better forms of education. Well, let me tell you, after more than a year of pandemic-related tech acceleration, my daughter's high school classes are primarily in two apps: Zoom and Google Docs. The world didn't have the time or the energy to catch up with Apple's bright vision. Apple has reached out to developers about the new iPad. It featured folks from Procreate, Adobe, and other software houses in its launch video. It needs to go deeper now, thinking about full soup-to-nuts workflows in the real world, sponsoring movie studios or design schools if it wants to make its vision real. If it can't show how people get the work done that they need to do today, potential customers will go for the MacBook Air, not the iPad Pro. More than anything else, Apple needs to point the way with iPadOS 15, giving pros the easy file system support, multiple windows, and true multiple-monitor support that they've demanded for years. If Apple wants its iPad Pro vision to become a reality, it's time to acknowledge that the barriers are software, not hardware.