Title: 24 Best Vibrators for Women In 2021, According To Experts

Text: You heard it here first, folks: Masturbating is pretty much essential to your mental and physical health—I'm talking pain relief and better sleep here. And when you bring a vibrator into the mix, you're signing up for all those good-for-you benefits and toe-curling orgasms on demand. "Vibrators can help your body learn to respond to a variety of sensations," says certified sex therapist Kat Van Kirk, resident relationship and sex expert at Adam & Eve. "It also creates more variety in your sexual repertoire and can spice up your long-term sexual relationships."  Another perk: “One of the top benefits of using a vibrator is that you get to know your own pleasure zones,” says Taylor Sparks, erotic educator and founder of OrganicLoven.com. “If you don't know what pleases you, it will be a challenge to explain it to your lovers.” That said, with all the options out there, shopping for the vibrator that'll turn you on every time you switch it on isn't all that simple. In fact, considering all the bells and whistles and hefty price tags some of the latest vibes are boasting, it can be pretty freaking hard. "Consider what you are looking for," says Alexandra Fine, CEO and cofounder of Dame Products, and a certified sexologist. "What type of experience do you want this tool to help you unlock?” Clitoral stimulation, for example, could be something you want to focus on—or maybe penetration's more your thing. “When shopping for your first vibrator keep in mind what types of stimulation turn you on," Sparks says. Do you like penetration? Oral? Look for a sex toy that simulates those sensations. We talked to sex experts to come up with this list of the 24 best vibrators for women in 2021, whatever your ~vibe~ (lol, get it?). With the guesswork out of the way, you can spend less time online and more time in bed. 1. Dame Zee Dame Zee Dame Products dameproducts.com $30.00 SHOP NOW Dame's vibrator, Zee, launched last November. Instead of silicone, it's made from type of silky-smooth plastic called ABS (which, fun fact, Legos are made from), then coated with a soft-touch spray. Why, you ask? Because this thinner material makes room for Zee's super-powerful motor. 2. SKYN Vibes Massager SKYN Vibes Personal Massager SKYN walmart.com $27.49 SHOP NOW If you're looking for affordable options, you def need to check out the Vibes Massager by SKYN. It comes highly recommended by Engle, who says it's "super bendy and easy to maneuver." The best part? It's versatile. "What’s great is that you can use it for dual stimulation of the clit and G-spot," she adds. Don't want penetration? Just use it on your clit, vulva, or nipples. 3. Bam Bullet Bam Bullet VeDo wildflowersex.com $40.00 SHOP NOW Just here to put yet another bullet vibrator on your radar. The VeDo Bam Bullet has **10** different vibration patterns (huge), and it's made of soft silicone. While it might be little, this one packs quite the punch. And FYI, certified sex coach and author of All The F*cking Mistakes: a guide to sex, love, and life, Gigi Engle says bullet vibrators are "the best place to start," since they focus on the glans (aka your clit's head), which is "where the vast majority of women discover their potential for orgasm and pleasure." Sold. 4. We-Vibe Unite We-Vibe We-Vibe Unite Clitoral and G-Spot Vibrator We-Vibe lovehoney.com $99.99 SHOP NOW Looking for a toy that you can use with your S.O. too? We-Vibe Unite is perfect for slipping in between you and your partner. It stays put while it pulses, allowing you the freedom to caress yourself elsewhere or keep grinding along with its vibrations. Like to take your time during sex? That's totally fine because this thing can go for up to 60 minutes straight (do people actually last that long? Asking for a friend). 5. Le Wand Vibrator Vibrator Le Wand wildflowersex.com $170.00 SHOP NOW Le Wand is a freakin' classic, which is why so many sexperts recommend it as the best vibrator for women. So it's not the most discreet-looking toy (but, TBH, who cares?). In fact, it's on the bigger side for a reason. It's meant to be used all around your clitoris for earth-shattering orgasms, or you can angle part of its head to reach inside you for some internal-type pleasure. It's got 20 vibration patterns, 10 different speeds (um, r u serious?), and it's USB rechargeable. Look, it's called 'the wand' for a reason. It's magic. 6. Tiger Vibe G5 Tiger Vibe G5 Fun Factory babeland.com $139.99 SHOP NOW Want internal pleasure? Want to reach what your fingers can't? If so, then the Tiger Vibe G5 might be your perfect match. Shaped like a penis and with a special ringed handle for optimal movement, this vibe is meant for insertion and can reach all the way up to your G-spot. It's 100 percent waterproof (perf for taking into baths and showers), and it's got a rechargeable battery (major key).  7. Pom This tiny vibe fits right in the palm of your hand and bends at your will. It has a super-powerful motor and comes in two colors. Fine recommends humping the toy between your legs or sliding it in your panties. "It's my personal fave," she adds. 8. The Fin Fin Finger Vibe Dame Products dameproducts.com $85.00 SHOP NOW This water-resistant finger vibe is pretty much perf for both solo masturbation and partnered sex. The band that wraps around your fingers and makes it easy to lose yourself in the sensation without losing grip on the toy. The Fin is "a great choose-your-own-adventure toy, since it can easily be integrated into whatever you’re already doing with your hands," says Fine. Major bonus: It's got a magnetic USB charger and is made of medical-grade silicone.  Learn about the fascinating history of the sex toy: ​ 9. My First Jack Rabbit CalExotics My First Jack Rabbit CalExotics ellaparadis.com $49.00 SHOP NOW Remember that vibrator that literally kept Charlotte in bed for days in Sex And The City? Well, that's this guy. Let me introduce you to the My First Jack Rabbit, a tool that stimulates both your G-Spot and clitoris *at the same time*. It's got little orbs that whirl around while it pulses for increased stimulation too. Engle says that "vibrators are a tool for female sexual liberation," and honestly, the rabbit will make you feel liberated as hell. 10. Femme Funn Ultra Bullet Organic Loven Femme Funn Ultra Bullet Femme Fun organicloven.com $59.95 SHOP NOW “I always recommend a bullet vibrator to start with, preferably one that can offer both external and internal stimulation,” Sparks says. And this is the one she suggests the most. “It offers 20 vibration modes, so it’s perfect for the beginner as well as a seasoned lover of bullet vibrators. It can be used both internally and externally, plus it's waterproof, USB rechargeable, and small enough for travel.” Bzz. 11. G Kiss Waterproof Vibrator CalExotics G-kiss Vibes, Purple CalExotics amazon.com $16.10 SHOP NOW As far as vibrators go, the G Kiss is pretty cheap. But don’t mistake the low price point for lack of quality. The toy’s contoured tip vibrates to target your G-spot, while the clitoral stimulator and its pleasure nubs go to work on your clitoris. With three speeds and dual motors, this is a pretty good bang for your buck—literally. 12. Sona Cruise 2 SONA 2 Cruise Lelo £139.00 SHOP NOW The Lelo Sona Cruise 2 is here to stimulate all your clitoral needs. It mimics the sensation of oral sex, (um, yes plz!), and the harder you push it against your skin, the more it increases the vibrating intensity (v special feature, you guys!). It uses sonic waves to deliver vibrations to your clit without actually touching it, which is huge for those of you who can't handle a lot of direct clitoral stimulation.  13. The Romp Wave Lay-on Mint Romp Wave Lay-On Mint Romp organicloven.com $29.99 SHOP NOW Sparks is a big fan of the Romp line. Everything is under $50 (!!), but the quality is comparable to expensive brands, she says. This bb has six vibration modes and packs a lot of power for its small size. 14. Starlet 2 Love Honey Starlet 2 Womanizer lovehoney.com $79.99 SHOP NOW The Womanizer Starlet 2 is Engle's favorite toy for beginners. "You turn it on, put the nozzle over the glans, and bam, you're having an orgasm in just a few minutes," she says. For those of you who've never had an orgasm before, Engle says using the Womanizer is "a fabulous way to find out what they feel like without any guesswork." 15. Jimmyjane Form 2 Jimmy Jane Form 2 jimmyjane.com $160.00 SHOP NOW The Form 2 has powerful vibrating motors in each flexible ear. It's perfect for pinching around your clitoral hood in a way that gives you stimulation without touching the pleasure center directly. And while it's def not for insertion, Fine says that's totally okay. 16. Palma Vibrating Ring Palma is a super sleek statement piece of jewelry that doubles as a vibrator. Yes, you legit wear it on your finger. Fine says "vibrators that are also jewelry can be incredibly empowering. They allow you to demonstrate in public that you prioritize your pleasure—something to be proud of." Gently caress your labia and nipples with Palma for a buildup, then push the ring against your clit when you're ready for explosives. 17. We-Vibe Moxie Wearable (a.k.a. panty) vibrators are awesome, and this one is no exception: It's mini, contoured, super soft, and quiet. Just slip the mini, contoured vibe into your underwear before dinner, and hand off control to a partner via the remote or mobile app. 18. Vesper Vibrator Necklace Amazon Crave Vesper Vibrator Necklace (Rose Gold) Crave amazon.com $79.00 SHOP NOW PSA: The Crave Vesper is a freaking necklace, people. Not only is it sleek and stylish, but it's also made of stainless steel, has four different vibrations, and it's USB rechargeable. The best part about jewelry that doubles as an accessory? "They’re great for an impromptu rendezvous," says Fine. But even though Vesper's surface is smooth, you might want to make it feel even sleeker by pairing it with water-based lube for optimal stimulation. 19. We-Vibe Tango Tango Lipstick Bullet Vibrator We-Vibe lovehoney.com $79.99 SHOP NOW The Tango comes highly recommended from Engle. She says its strength comes from its simplicity, since it's "a small bullet vibrator with a ton of speeds and rhythms." TBH, it's also ideal because of how quiet it is when you turn it on. 20. Womanizer Premium Love Honey Womanizer Starlet 2 Rechargeable Clitoral Suction Stimulator Womanizer lovehoney.com $79.99 SHOP NOW So you've read about the Womanizer Starlet, but what about the Womanizer ~Premium~? It's another favorite of Engle's. She's into it because this model's longer base makes it easier to use. The Premium has 12 different intensity levels and has a special autopilot setting that changes its rhythm every time you turn it on. Plus, it's extra-soft silicon makes it especially nice for people who have sensitive glans, Engle adds. 21. Enby Enby is considered the first gender-neutral vibrator because of its innovative multi-body design. Rub the flexible silicone tip around your clitoris or flip the toy around so that the triangular base sits at your perineum. Or you can place yourself on top and use a humping rhythm to experience a wave of stimulation with each stroke. 22. MysteryVibe Crescendo Amazon Crescendo MysteryVibe amazon.com $94.34 SHOP NOW The Crescendo is super special because the shaft bends however the eff you please. You might curve it into a V-shape and use it for both penetrative stimulation and clitoral stimulation at once. Looking to try anal but getting some first-time nerves? This vibrator is slender and gentle enough that you can insert without it feeling too intense (but make sure you use with water-based lube!). 23. Rabbit Bullet Vibe Je Joue Rabbit Bullet Vibrator jejoue.com $59.00 SHOP NOW The Je Joue Rabbit Bullet Vibe combines the size and power of a bullet with the huggable "ears" of a rabbit vibrator. You can use it to envelope the hood of your clit or massage your vulva with the bullet's base. Because the Rabbit Bullet is so dynamic, it's sure to bring you all the orgasmic exploration you need. Bonus: "They tend to be quieter than larger vibrators," says sex expert Jess O’Reilly, author of and host of the @SexWithDrJess podcast. So if you've got roommates, this one's for you. 24. Kandi Kisses Bedroom Kandi Kandi Kisses bedroomkandi.com $70.00 SHOP NOW Yep, that's Kandi as in singer Kandi Burruss, and trust, this pretty li'l vibe will not disappoint. Better yet, leave it on your dresser and your roommate will be none the wiser. So smart! This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io