Title: EVGA Z20 Opto-Mechanical Gaming Keyboard Review

Text: Chances are that when you think about EVGA, keyboards aren’t the first thing that comes to mind. Graphics cards are number one, obviously, then other components, such as motherboards and power supplies. The company's PC contributions are typically internal, but there are exceptions like its new, $174 EVGA Z20 gaming keyboard. It has dedicated macro keys, media controls, USB passthrough, and the much-less common audio passthrough. But to make a great keyboard, rather than merely a flashy one, a manufacturer must nail the fundamentals. EVGA misses the mark with the Z20. Its keycaps feel loose and unstable, and the Light Strike LK optical switches sound tinny. Without the solid foundation of a great typing experience, all the comforts in the world can’t make the Z20 into a competitive flagship keyboard. All Dressed Up The Z20 is a large gaming keyboard. Measuring 1.6 by 18.5 by 5.8 inches (HWD) on its own, or 1.6 by 18.5 by 8.6 inches with its detachable wrist rest, the keyboard takes up a lot of real estate. That is, in part, because of its many luxury features; the Z20's 109 keys and dedicated media controls make it a desktop centerpiece that grabs your attention. It features RGB light bars on the side, which flare out from the edge of the anodized aluminum base panel. Even the EVGA logo, adorning a large piece of silver plastic on the back edge, juts out from the keyboard. In some ways, the Z20 looks like a statement piece with its flashy RGB lights and extra keys. In other ways, it looks a bit chintzy; that silver plastic logo piece is too large and looks gaudy. The wrist rest, though soft and coated in leatherette, feels a bit thin. The keys, the heart and soul of any keyboard, are on similarly weak ground. The Z20 features Light Strike LK optical switches, a longstanding, third-party optical switch with waned popularity, despite the fact that optical switches have become more popular in the last 2-3 years. This clicky-style version of the switch makes a particularly tinny sound, which I found more grating than pleasant. (If you simply want less noise, the Z20 is also available with linear-style Light Strikes.) In addition, the wobbly keycaps shake when you press them. The loose keys make for an unsure, less-than-comfortable typing experience. On the other hand, the Z20 has almost every feature that a gamer could want. On the left-hand side of the keyboard, you have five dedicated macro keys, named “E1-E5,” and a Game Mode button. In the top-right corner, you have four dedicated media buttons and a wide volume roller. There are two passthrough ports on the edges: A USB port on the back near the base of the power cable, and an audio jack on the left side. Audio passthrough has become pretty rare, even among top-of-the-line keyboards. That said, it's useful; an increasing number of top gaming headsets require USB connectivity to leverage digital features. Audio passthrough can also reduce desktop clutter, depending on your PC setup. The Z20 also has luxury features that aren’t so impressive. It offers an enhanced polling rate up to 4000Hz, or one input per 0.25ms. Polling rate, which determines how often signals are sent from your keyboard to your PC, has recently become a hot feature in gaming mice, but enhancing it above the 1000Hz makes little difference in keyboards. At best, it may make holding a key down slightly more efficient. The Z20’s most distinctive feature is a proximity sensor near the keyboard's front, which EVGA calls the “Time-of-Flight” sensor. The ToF sensor notices when you’re near/away from the keyboard and automatically wakes up/puts to sleep your system. On paper, this seems like a space-age feature; in practice, I didn’t notice it waking or putting the computer to sleep more efficiently than my usual routine. Unleash RGB Hell Configuration apps that let you remap keys, program macros, and set RGB lighting are often weak points for manufacturers that don’t see peripherals as a priority. Case in point, the EVGA Unleash RGB. The Z20's configuration feels antiquated and doesn’t work all that well. The windowed, single-screen app features most of the things you’d look for in a config app: The ability to create custom profiles with remapped keys, homemade macros, and your own RGB set up. It also lets you tweak other settings, such as polling rate and the keys deactivated by the Game Mode button. The issues arise when you use these features. Despite putting a keyboard visualization front and center, the app doesn't show what customized keys do unless you click them, then change their function. The keyboard map shows up on all the menus, leading you to try and change keys, even when you haven’t selected the correct tab. These are just a few small, but confounding, design decisions that make Unleash RGB a poor pairing for any keyboard, especially one with dedicated macro buttons that require customization. Using Unleash RGB, you can create up to nine keyboard profiles—a small number in the big scheme of things. Most configuration apps let you create an unlimited number of local profiles, and store a few in onboard memory. Keyboards Aren’t Components Though its spec sheet looks mostly great, the EVGA Z20 isn't particularly impressive. At $174.99, it isn’t quite as expensive as best-in-class keyboards, such as Editors' Choice picks Corsair K95 Platinum XT and Razer Huntsman V2 Analog, but it falls squarely in the premium flagship category. With so many incredible keyboard options, the Z20’s main appeals are its more obscure features including audio passthrough and the proximity sensor. If those features don't interest you, there are plenty of other top gaming keyboards to choose from.