Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Donut Filling' Steatocystoma On Instagram

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she squeezes a satisfying steatocystoma. This bump was stuffed with an oily, yellow liquid, which fans compared to donut filling. When Dr. Pimple Popper squeezed, all the gunk came spilling out. Some pimples get all the attention. Yep, I'm talking about blackheads. But, even the diehard blackhead popping fans should give credit to the satisfying extractions that come from steatocystomas. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, certainly gives love and effort to these oily pops. One particularly entertaining steatocystoma is the star of her latest Instagram video. Dr. Pimple Popper introduces it in the caption: "Steatocystomas 💛 (Cysts of the Sebaceous Gland)" And, she dives into some helpful background info for all her fans: "The contents of steatocystomas are more liquid and odorless, often clear or slightly yellow in color. These types of cysts are benign and rare (despite seeing so many in my videos) especially compared to epidermoid cysts. Treatment isn’t necessary, but may seek removal due to appearance AND they give us #popaholics a nice SQUEEZE! 💥🤏 #drpimplepopper #steatocystoma" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper shows this extraction from the very start. She begins by numbing the area before getting her fingers ready to squeeze. Once she applies pressure, a ton of oily gunk starts to pile up on the top of the skin. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Fans had so many thoughts about what was inside. One wrote, "Thats the stuff in those donuts." Another Popaholic asked, "Did you get all the sack outta that one? That was a tricky little booger." It sure was, but you know Dr. Pimple Popper finished it off like a pro. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io