Title: Exchange Listing: BANANO To Be Listed on Coinex!

Text: Backed by next generation DAG tech and potassium, BANANO is a cryptocurrency getting into your wallet fast, feelessly, and with loads of fun. BANANO is distributed for free to everyone. Its easy-to-use technology onboards normies and crypto-noobs without the usual hassle by combining a fun attitude with gamification, and then educate them to handle crypto in general in a responsible way. Today, we’re ‘leaking’ that BANANO will be listed on CoinEx Exchange! More details below! BANANO To Be Listed at CoinEx Exchange Since the news is now out already (source), here we go: BANANO will shortly be listed at CoinEx Exchange, which will be BANANO’s biggest exchange listing so far ❤ Together with CoinEx we will reveal more details shortly, but we already can tell that there will be some activities going on around this listing. Maybe there’s even an airdrop included, who knows :) Direct link to CoinEx: https://www.coinex.com/ Details to follow shortly — stay tuned for announcements Overview of all current BANANO exchanges: http://exchange.banano.how NOTE: Please be mindful and cautious when using exchanges. This announcement does not mean BANANO is endorsing the use of this exchange. Never leave funds on exchanges unless you’re trading. What the Fork is BANANO? For those of you who don’t know BANANO yet, it’s obviously perfect to just read our animated, meme-rich and interactive Yellowpaper! BANANO is a cryptocurrency (forked from NANO in April 2018) powered by DAG technology — here to distrupt the meme economy. Yes, BANANO has memes! And also feeless and near-instant transactions, a highly active community, and active technical development! The BANANO community doesn’t take themselves too seriously, but we’re here for the long run and we enjoy what we do. On top of this, BANANO is super easy to use and puts an emphasis on free and fair distribution, gamification and crypto education. See current BANANO price and market data at Coingecko or Coinmarketcap. All current trading pairs and exchanges here. Join the Banano Republic! BANANO ($BAN) is a fee-less, instant, rich in potassium cryptocurrency powered by DAG technology disrupting the meme economy. Official Website: banano.cc Yellowpaper: banano.cc/yellowpaper Help getting started: banano.how Community News: The Daily Peel Join our social channels for updates & giveaways: Discord | Twitter | Telegram | Reddit | Youtube Publish0x | Uptrennd | LBRY | Medium | Hive Github | BitcoinTalk | Instagram | Facebook | TikTok Overviews: BANANO News | BANANO links