Title: 11 New Books We Recommend This Week

Text: This week’s recommended books include a local’s impressionistic rendering of Mexico City, a Chilean novel about life during the Pinochet regime, and journalistic accounts of Rwanda and the family that brought you OxyContin. There are also two essay collections (or essayistic collections), by Jenny Diski and Jo Ann Beard, along with a senator’s memoir and sparkling letters by the American poet James Merrill. Finally, a biography of the scholar Edward Said, a history of the cultural hotbed of 1970s Los Angeles and Kaitlyn Greenidge’s new novel, about a free spirit finding her way in post-Civil War New York. Gregory Cowles Senior Editor, Books Twitter: @GregoryCowles EMPIRE OF PAIN: The Secret History of the Sackler Dynasty, by Patrick Radden Keefe. (Doubleday, $32.50.) Keefe’s cleareyed study of the Sackler family — whose company Purdue Pharma created OxyContin, the powerful painkiller that ushered in a new era of both pain management and opioid addiction — nimbly guides us through a thicket of family intrigues and betrayals. “Even when detailing the most sordid episodes, Keefe’s narrative voice is calm and admirably restrained, allowing his prodigious reporting to speak for itself,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “His portrait of the family is all the more damning for its stark lucidity.” WHY DIDN’T YOU JUST DO WHAT YOU WERE TOLD? Essays, by Jenny Diski. (Bloomsbury, $28.) Diski (1947-2016) contributed more than 200 pieces to The London Review of Books over 25 years, beginning in 1992. This book collects a few dozen of the best. “Amid the book reviews in the LRB by critics determined to sound sober and certain, as if they were museum docents, her reviews and essays admitted doubt,” our critic Dwight Garner writes. “They were marvelously shrewd but approachable and witty.” The wide range of subjects in this collection includes Jeffrey Dahmer, a cruise to Antarctica, the dedicated wives of famous intellectuals and arachnophobia. FESTIVAL DAYS, by Jo Ann Beard. (Little, Brown, $27.) Featuring characters mostly drawn from life confronting illness, loss, violence and death, this exquisite collection of pieces defies classification, blending intuition and observation into something unaccountably yet undeniably real. Are they essays? Stories? A mix? Beard doesn’t fret much over genre, and her readers shouldn’t either. “We can rely on her to miss nothing,” Leah Hager Cohen writes in her review. “She will gather the essential elements and arrange them before us with such precision that, without instructing us how to see, she grants us sight.”