Title: Oscars 2021 results: The full list of winners, from Nomadland to Daniel Kaluuya

Text: Photo by Todd Wawrychuk/A.M.P.A.S. via Getty Images The 2021 Oscars are over and had a different, more relaxed vibe compared to previous years. Play-off music didn't even interrupt the speeches and history was made, with Chloé Zhao becoming the second ever woman to win best director and the first woman of color. Minari's Youn Yuh-jung won best supporting actress, the first Korean acting win in the show's 93-year history. Perhaps surprisingly, Anthony Hopkins won best actor for The Father, beating the late Chadwick Boseman who had been the favorite. The successfully hostless show came to a swift end after that result. Nomadland, from Chloé Zhao, won best picture and best actress for Frances McDormand, a whopping fourth Oscar win for the actress. Nomadland won three Oscars overall, the most on the night. Mank, The Father, Tenet, Judas and the Black Messiah, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, Soul and Sound of Metal were among those that took two. Daniel Kaluuya won his first Oscar for best supporting actor early on in the night, giving a memorably unconventional tribute to his parents. Check out the full list of winners for the 93rd award ceremony below. Read more: Oscars 2021 winner predictions | How to stream the Oscars 2021 best picture nominees Oscars 2021 winners Best picture The Father Judas and the Black Messiah Mank Minari Nomadland -- winner Promising Young Woman Sound of Metal The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best director Thomas Vinterberg, Another Round Emerald Fennell, Promising Young Woman David Fincher, Mank Lee Isaac Chung, Minari Chloé Zhao, Nomadland -- winner Best actor in a leading role Riz Ahmed, Sound of Metal Chadwick Boseman, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Anthony Hopkins, The Father -- winner Gary Oldman, Mank Steven Yeun, Minari Best actress in a leading role Viola Davis, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Andra Day, The United States vs Billie Holiday Vanessa Kirby, Pieces of a Woman Frances McDormand, Nomadland -- winner Carey Mulligan, Promising Young Woman Best actor in a supporting role Sacha Baron Cohen, The Trial of the Chicago 7 Daniel Kaluuya, Judas and the Black Messiah -- winner Leslie Odom, Jr, One Night in Miami Paul Raci, Sound of Metal Lakeith Stanfield, Judas and the Black Messiah Best actress in a supporting role Maria Bakalova, Borat Subsequent Moviefilm Glenn Close, Hillbilly Elegy Olivia Colman, The Father Amanda Seyfried, Mank Youn Yuh-jung, Minari -- winner Best original song Husavik, Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga Fight For You, Judas and the Black Messiah -- winner Io Sì (Seen), The Life Ahead Speak Now, One Night in Miami Hear My Voice, The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best original score Da 5 Bloods Mank Minari News of the World Soul -- winner Best film editing The Father Nomadland Promising Young Woman Sound of Metal -- winner The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best cinematography Judas and the Black Messiah Mank -- winner News of the World Nomadland The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best production design The Father Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Mank -- winner News of the World Tenet Best visual effects Love and Monsters The Midnight Sky Mulan The One and Only Ivan Tenet -- winner Best documentary Collective Crip Camp The Mole Agent My Octopus Teacher -- winner Time Best documentary short Colette -- winner A Concerto Is a Conversation Do Not Split Hunger Ward A Love Song for Latasha Best animated feature film Onward Over the Moon A Shaun the Sheep Movie: Farmageddon Soul -- winner Wolfwalkers Best animated short film Burrow Genius Loci If Anything Happens I Love You -- winner Opera Yes-People Best live-action short film Feeling Through The Letter Room The Present Two Distant Strangers -- winner White Eye Best sound Greyhound Mank News of the World Sound of Metal -- winner Soul Best costume design Emma Mank Ma Rainey's Black Bottom -- winner Mulan Pinocchio Best makeup and hairstyling Emma Hillbilly Elegy Ma Rainey's Black Bottom -- winner Mank Pinocchio Best international feature film  Another Round -- winner Better Days Collective The Man Who Sold His Skin Quo Vadis, Aida? Best adapted screenplay Borat Subsequent Moviefilm The Father -- winner Nomadland One Night in Miami The White Tiger Best original screenplay Judas and the Black Messiah Minari Promising Young Woman -- winner Sound of Metal The Trial of the Chicago 7 Best looks from the Oscars 2021 red carpet Here were the best looks from the red carpet. (To be honest, they were all best looks just for making it there.) Among the expected 170 guests were a host of presenters, including: Brad Pitt, Harrison Ford, Zendaya, Laura Dern, Regina King, Joaquin Phoenix, Reese Witherspoon, Angela Bassett, Halle Berry, Don Cheadle, Bryan Cranston and Renee Zellweger. Oh, and Parasite director Bong Joon-ho and his beloved interpreter Sharon Choi. The legends themselves. Brad Pitt Photo by Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images Olivia Colman Photo by Karwai Tang/WireImage Laura Dern Photo by Matt Petit/A.M.P.A.S. via Getty Images Amanda Seyfried Photo by Matt Petit/A.M.P.A.S. via Getty Images Regina King Photo by Matt Petit/A.M.P.A.S. via Getty Images Angela Bassett Photo by Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images Sacha Baron Cohen Photo by Rick Rycroft-Pool/Getty Images Zendaya Photo by Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images Margot Robbie Photo by Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images Halle Berry Photo by Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images Vanessa Kirby Photo by Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images Maria Bakalova Photo by Chris Pizzelo-Pool/Getty Images Riz Ahmed Photo by Chris Pizzelo-Pool/Getty Images Lakeith Stanfield Lakeith Stanfield in Saint Laurent for the #Oscars. Absolutely amazing look pic.twitter.com/kB1OmA2t1E — Tom and Lorenzo (@tomandlorenzo) April 25, 2021 Viola Davis Photo by Chris Pizzelo-Pool/Getty Images Carey Mulligan Carey Mulligan dazzles in a gold gown on the #Oscars red carpet. She understood the assignment. https://t.co/JneW40MCl0 pic.twitter.com/peFo9FhsCg — Variety (@Variety) April 25, 2021 Daniel Kaluuya Best supporting actor nominee Daniel Kaluuya arrives on the #Oscars red carpet sporting an all black suit. See more red carpet fashion here https://t.co/OUrccgI8n4 pic.twitter.com/RXVVQmKjZN — Variety (@Variety) April 25, 2021 Best supporting actor nominees Daniel Kaluuya and Leslie Odom Jr. share a laugh on the #Oscars red carpet. We love to see it https://t.co/AimXQYE1Iu pic.twitter.com/5DX8NcGhoF — Variety (@Variety) April 25, 2021 Emerald Fennell Friendly Reminder: Chloé Zhao and Emerald Fennell have ALREADY made #Oscars history tonight! 👏 https://t.co/ALpk5p74Me pic.twitter.com/l54YJ8kmTn — Entertainment Tonight (@etnow) April 25, 2021 Chloé Zhao Chloé Zhao is making history at the #Oscars and really showed up in sneaks and French braids. We 👏 bow 👏 down 👏. https://t.co/SFIqmlMUJG pic.twitter.com/a59tSsyewC — E! News (@enews) April 25, 2021 The cast of Minari Photo by Matt Petit/A.M.P.A.S. via Getty Images Alan Kim  Minari’s Alan S. Kim still serving looks as the #Oscars get underway pic.twitter.com/lLhKe6TqqX — Eli Glasner 🎥 (@glasneronfilm) April 25, 2021 Because Alan Kim's so adorable, he deserves two posts. OK, why not a third. Leslie Odom Jr. What a stunning serve by Leslie Odom Jr. for the #Oscars pic.twitter.com/NMpti0pA77 — Tom and Lorenzo (@tomandlorenzo) April 25, 2021 Colman Domingo Me: I don't feel like tweeting about the #Oscars red carpet.  Colman Domingo: Hmm, we'll see about that. pic.twitter.com/tk6WPcp9RX — Samantha Powell (@sdpowell1) April 25, 2021 Glenn Close  Photo by Chris Pizzelo-Pool/Getty Images Reese Witherspoon And here she is at the show.