Title: What 'Bling Empire's' Kelly Mi Li Eats In A Day

Text: Before her reality TV debut on Netflix's Bling Empire, Kelly Mi Li was used to life behind the camera. She was go-go-go running her production company in Los Angeles, but she fit right in on the other side of the camera with her boyfriend Andrew Gray and the rest of her group of friends. The last year was a time of big transitions for her. She dove into individual therapy and discovered self-care habits, in addition to becoming a reality TV star. To fuel her busy life, Kelly is all about a balanced diet and portion control. "I don't believe in or really do any specific diet. If I'm craving pizza, I have pizza and enjoy it. But, I balance it out with lots of veggies." Here's exactly what Kelly Mi Li eats in a day: Breakfast Morning coffee is everything for Kelly, and she takes hers with some plant-based creamer. "I use almond milk creamer or coconut milk creamer. I don't really do too much dairy," she says. She also focuses on hydration starting when she wakes up and downs a giant glass of water with turmeric. Then, for breakfast, she eats overnight chia seeds soaked in almond milk with blueberries. "I don't eat too much in the morning just because my body's not super hungry," she says. Hydration Kelly's usually sipping on water or kombucha the rest of the day. "I love water," she says. "It's a very rare for me to drink soda, I think I gave that up like two years ago. Once a year I might have a Coca Cola." In addition to water, Kelly loves to sip on any flavor of does the trick for her. She also adds electrolyte powder mixes from Costco to her H2O for an extra kick of hydration and flavor. She also gets a pick-me-up from Califia's Vanilla Latte Cold Brew Coffee With Almond Milk. Kelly will sip on that mid-afternoon for a treat. Lunch Quick and easy low-carb wraps are Kelly's foundation for her mid-day meal. She adds turkey breast, arugula, avocado, and a little balsamic in the Crepini Egg Thins and rolls it all up. "They're like wraps, but they're zero carb, gluten-free, and keto friendly. They're made out of cauliflower and egg whites and pretty much can replace any kind of tortilla." She will also whip up tacos with the same wraps. One thing she always has on hand is hot sauce. "I love spicy food and will often put hot sauce on my wraps or tacos," Kelly says. "You can't go wrong with . Tabasco is really good, too. I also like this Chinese hot sauce, called , I literally put it on everything." A couple things you won't find in Kelly's kitchen are cilantro and celery. Nothing against plants that start with "C," but she simply doesn't care for them. "Cilantro tastes like soap. And, if I get a bloody Mary, I always take the celery out right away." Snack She likes to have appetite-quenching options on hand. Her afternoon snacks include popcorn, fruit, or a protein bar. If Kelly's grabbing fruit, it's likely cherries, grapes, or oranges. "I love oranges," she says. Her go-to bar is the and fave popcorn brand is "Those are really good, and I buy them in bulk."  Dinner It's in the evening when hunger really strikes for Kelly. "Dinner is when I really get started," Kelly says. Protein is the focal point of her plate. "A lot time, I just want to stick with some kind of protein," she says. "I will either do a salmon or steak or chicken in the air fryer. I get a lot of pre-marinated steak and chicken from Trader Joe's. And, Costco has stuffed bell peppers that I really like with cheese, rice, ground beef, veggies, and seasonings." Amazon COSORI Smart WiFi Air Fryer 5.8QT COSORI amazon.com $119.99 SHOP NOW It all goes in Kelly's before hitting her plate. "I love my air fryer, it is the best thing I've ever invested in and the most used, too."  You're not likely to find her slaving away at the stove, though. "I'm not a really good cook," she says. "I'm like the only person who didn't pick up cooking during the pandemic." Kelly does know her way around her air fryer, and fries up her go-to proteins or veggies on the reg. And, when her boyfriend Andrew comes over, he'll barbecue steaks and veggies on the grill. Naturally, living in Los Angeles Kelly likes to explore the local restaurants and the wide variety of foods on the menus. "I always love a good steak house," Kelly says. "I like to eat at a lot of local places, and I love really good Asian foods. I have to work to for good Chinese food, but the hardest thing to find is really good Vietnamese food. If you go to Vietnam their cuisine is extensive with lots of fresh vegetables. Pho is just one dish." Her favorites are a dish called morning glory, which is stir fried with garlic, or stir fried cactus. "It tastes kind of like okra."  Dessert Ice cream is Kelly's go-to dessert. "I love ice cream, and salted caramel is my favorite." She's a big fan of the low cal . Kelly says she'll enjoy the whole container as a treat. Drinks At the end of the week, it's time for some wine. "I would say maybe on Friday or Saturday night, I'll have a glass of wine with my dinner," Kelly says. "I like a cabernet and dry wines." Cheers to that! This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io