Title: Porsche Taycan Cross Turismo revealed – 750bhp Turbo S to top crossover range

Text: Porsche has unveiled its new Taycan Cross Turismo, a high-riding estate version of its game changing electric saloon. The new body style promises to combine the Taycan saloon’s performance, handling and style with a new level of versatility and even some light off-roading ability. The Taycan Cross Turismo is available in four variants, from basic Taycan 4 (which is yet to be available as a saloon), through 4S, Turbo and the flagship Turbo S. None compromise on power, with the flagship Turbo S matching the saloon’s impressive 750bhp overboost peak power figure (641bhp in normal circumstances). Acceleration times are 0.1sec behind the saloon model-for-model, but still send the Turbo S to 62mph in 2.9sec at its fastest. The Cross Turismo’s underpinnings are equally familiar, with all models running on the same bespoke J1 platform with an electric motor on each axle, fed from a 93.4kWh battery pack – the saloon’s smaller 79.2kWh Performance Battery is not available. The rear motor on all models is connected to a two-speed transmission, which aids acceleration and provides a higher final drive for more relaxed high-speed cruising. > Synthetic fuelled cars as clean as electric cars, says Porsche All Cross Turismos ride on three-chamber air-suspension and adaptive dampers as standard, and incorporate a new gravel setting within the different drive modes that raise the ride height for extra ground clearance and recalibrate the power, traction and suspension settings. All of the Taycan saloon’s various chassis tech is available throughout the different models, too, with rear-wheel steering, active anti-roll bars and Porsche torque vectoring (PTV) all available either as standard or on the options list depending on the model. Standard wheel sizes are 19- or 20-inches, with 21s an option. Taycan 4 and 4S models make do with steel brakes, with the Turbo upgrading these to carbide-coated discs on white calipers and the Turbo S packing the full-fat 420mm carbon ceramic package. As well as the new estate body, the Cross Turismo also features new lower bumper sections and wheel arch surrounds, making it marginally longer and wider than the saloon. There are also new lower bumper sections front and rear, and an optional off-road design package that adds odd-looking plates on both sides of the wheel arch to protect the bodywork on rough surfaces. The interior is unchanged compared to the saloon, save for some new colour options and trim finishes. Also introduced as part of the wider 2021 update is the option of a head up display, which brings with it an entirely new dash-top that partially covers the usually floating instrument display. Porsche has also revealed a bespoke roof box and bicycle carrier, again reinforcing the versatility of this more adventurous variant. The Cross Turismo will launch in the summer, with only a small premium over equivalent pricing for the saloon. In top-spec Turbo S forms, it will set you back from £139,910 in the UK, with the entry-level Taycan 4 starting at £79,340.