Title: Crypto News, Articles & Posts in News Category

Text: News Why is ethereum on a tear of late, outperforming bitcoin? The recent price movement of bitcoin indicates consolidation. This is a healthy pullback and will provide long-term stability to the world’s largest crypto asset. Ether is rallying because of the launch of ethereum ETF on a Canadian exchange, says experts Solana (SOL) hits new highs as DApps, DeFi and stablecoins join the network Solana price is pushing toward new highs as an increasing number of DApps, DeFi projects and stablecoins build platforms on the network. Filebase Raises $2 Million to Make Decentralized Storage as Easy as AWS Decentralized storage protocols like Filecoin and Sia aren’t quite as user-friendly as Amazon Web Services. For Filebase, that’s a business opportunity. Newegg Now Accepting Dogecoin for Payments Via BitPay Online retailer Newegg has introduced support for Dogecoin (DOGE) payments on its platform, boosting the meme token’s price considerably. Dogecoin Eclipses XRP as 4th Largest Cryptocurrency Ahead of ‘Dogeday’ Dogecoin is leaping ahead of April 20, or 4/20 – an unofficial holiday for many cannabis smokers that’s apparently also known as “Dogeday.” NSA Whistleblower Edward Snowden Sells NFT for $5.4M An Edward Snowden NFT sold for $5.44 million. Proceeds from the auction are going to the Freedom of the Press Foundation. DOGE passes Uniswap and Litecoin to become 8th largest cryptocurrency by market cap With a market capitalization of more than $23 billion, Dogecoin is now the 8th largest cryptocurrency as its price inches toward $0.20. Mark Cuban One-Ups Elon Musk: Mavs to Hold Dogecoin on Balance Sheet Cuban says his Dallas Mavericks have pulled in some 112K DOGE in sales after supporting the meme coin in March—and they’re holding onto it. DOGE soars 80% on the day to become 10th largest crypto by market cap Love or hate the meme coin, Dogecoin is seeing some of the most parabolic price action in the entire crypto market at present. Binance offers Tesla stock token will Coinbase follow? Binance has announced the launch of a new product, tokenized shares of publicly traded companies. The first to be listed is Elon Musk-led Tesla. XRP Doubles in 7 Days, Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain Since December 2017 XRP, the token used in Ripple Labs’ network, has doubled in a week, the biggest weekly gain since December 2017. TA: Bitcoin Steadies Above $59K, Here’s How Bulls Could Aim Fresh Rally Bitcoin price failed to continue higher above $60,800 and corrected lower against the US Dollar. BTC is now holding gains and it is likely to rally above $61,000 unless there is a break below the 100 hourly SMA. Atari creates blockchain division for cryptocurrency, games Video game pioneer Atari announced on Tuesday the creation of a blockchain division that will seize on the technology to develop games and a cryptocurrency... Privacy Chat App Signal Rolls Out Cryptocurrency Payments For now, the MobileCoin implementation is in beta. And only available in the UK. XRP Rises Above $1 for First Time Since March 2018, Despite SEC Shadow The XRP token’s price jumped above $1 as it draws support from a community of loyal and devoted cryptocurrency traders. Monthly Ethereum miner revenue reached all-time high in March Ethereum miners set a record for monthly revenue in March after doing the same thing in February, according to data gathered by The Block. NFT Marketplace OpenSea to Add Ethereum Layer 2 Protocol for Gas-Free Trading OpenSea, one of the leading NFT marketplaces, says it will use Immutable X to provide increased scalability and zero gas fees. Exclusive: PayPal launches crypto checkout service PayPal Holdings Inc will announce later on Tuesday that it has started allowing U.S. consumers to use their cryptocurrency holdings to pay at millions of its online merchants globally, a move that could significantly boost use of digital assets in everyday commerce. Uniswap Trading Volume Exploded by 450% to $7 Billion. Here’s Why A new DeFi project called Delta launched on Uniswap. Its rebasing system has made trading volume on the decentralized exchange appear higher than normal. VISA Completes First Cryptocurrency Transaction on Ethereum Visa has announced that it will allow transactions to be settled using the cryptocurrency stablecoin USD Coin. Bitcoin miners have earned more than $1.5 billion in revenue for March thus far Data collected by The Block Research shows that bitcoin miners have earned more than $1.5 billion in revenue. Dapper Labs: Top Shot NFTs ‘Were a Risk’ for the NBA The NFT crypto collectibles platform is a smash, but coming off of CryptoKitties and Ethereum issues, it was no sure thing for the sports league. TA: Bitcoin Steadies Above $50K, Why BTC Could Recover To $55K Bitcoin price extended its decline and traded close to $50,000 against the US Dollar. BTC is now consolidating losses and it is likely to start a recovery towards $55,000. Theta’s Mainnet 3.0 launch date pushed to June The development team for Theta’s Mainnet 3.0 continues to work on a new NFT marketplace, as well as addressing potential issues with scalability. Bitcoin Rises Despite Dollar Strength as Elon Musk Adds BTC Payment Option Elon Musk says people can now buy a Tesla with bitcoin, sending the cryptocurrency higher. South Korea’s Largest Social Gaming App to Mint Low-Carbon NFTs NFTs have been a controversial topic as of late due to their large carbon footprint caused by a proof-of-work consensus mechanism. Five Signs Litecoin Has Bottomed, Next In Line For New ATH Litecoin during the last cycle was as popular and hyped as other top cryptocurrencies Bitcoin and Ethereum. This time around, however, the coin called digital Streaming tokens surge as Bitcoin price drops to the $54,000 support Tokens related to gaming, video and music streaming rallied to new highs even as Bitcoin price pulled back to the $54,000 support. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey sells NFT of first-ever tweet for $2.9M Dorsey has said he will donate all the proceeds from the sale of the tweet, which he tokenized using Cent, to charity. How Ethereum low supply on exchanges could drive its price Research firm Santiment has determined that Ethereum’s supply radius on exchange platforms is at a 28-month low. With 20.1% of ETH in its reserves, the last USDC volume surpassed $10 billion on Thursday, The Block Data shows an Ethereum-based stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar — has exceeded $10 billion in total supply for the first time. Digital Dollar Would Have to Coexist With Cash: Fed Chairman Jerome Powell today said that a central bank digital currency (CBDC) wouldn’t remove the need for physical cash. a16z, Mark Cuban invest $23 million in NFT platform OpenSea In a funding round led by a16z NFT platform OpenSea raises $23 million with a16z, Mark Cuban and other investor’s participation. TA: Ethereum Breaks 100 SMA, Why ETH Looks Set For Fresh Run To $2K Ethereum is rising and it broke the key $1,800 resistance against the US Dollar. ETH price is showing positive signs and it is likely to continue higher towards $2,000. Crypto Prices Surge as Global Market Cap Nears $2 Trillion Crypto’s recovery accelerated overnight as global market cap approaches historic new milestone. Wall Street also set new records. Visa to enable Bitcoin purchase, says CEO Al Kelly In an interview for the Fortune’s Leadership Next podcast, Visa’s CEO Al Kelly reveals their efforts to integrate Bitcoin into their payment platform. Publicly-listed app maker Meitu buys another $49 million in ETH and BTC via subsidiary Meitu said the bitcoin acquisition would compose part of Miracle Vision’s treasury, while the ether purchase is part of wider product plans. Bitcoin Reverses Losses While Cardano Surges on Coinbase Pro Listing Markets are on the road to recovery after this week’s steep losses, with some projects fairing better than others. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Signaling Bullish Breakout, Why It Could Surge To $0.55 Ripple is showing a few positive signs above $0.4200 against the US Dollar. XRP price is likely to start a decent increase above the $0.4650 and $0.4800 resistance levels. TA: Bitcoin Forms Bullish Pattern, Why BTC Could Climb Above $58K Bitcoin price started a fresh increase after a drop towards $53,000 against the US Dollar. BTC is now forming an inverse head and shoulders, with chances of a break above $58,000. Tron Releases Details of New NFT Standard Developers behind the TRON blockchain have published technical details of TRC-721, the project’s own standard for NFTs. NEM Launches Proof-of-Stake, Enterprise-Facing Blockchain Platform The team behind the New Economy Movement (NEM) blockchain has launched a new, business-enterprise-facing project today called Symbol. NFT search volume hits all-time high as number of users nears 400,000 The Google search volume hit a maximum value of 100 on March 8, according to data collected by The Block. Charted: Polkadot (DOT) Setting Up For Fresh Surge Above $40 Polkadot’s DOT started a fresh increase from the $28.00 support against the US Dollar. It is rising and the bulls seem to be eyeing an upside break above the $40.00 resistance TA: Bitcoin Steadies Near $60K, Why BTC Could Surpass $62K Bitcoin price started a downside correction from the $61,700 high against the US Dollar. BTC is holding gains above the $58,500 and $58,000 support levels. Binance Adds Merchant Features to Early Version of Payments Platform The Binance exchange is adding new features for merchants to its cryptocurrency payments platform following a beta release in February. Ethereum Just Edged Closer to Proof of Stake Via Beacon Chain With the world buzzing about NFTs and DeFi taking off, Ethereum 2.0 developers want to get the proof-of-stake network up and running soon. Solana Price Pumps on Tether Stablecoin Addition Stablecoin USDT is now on Solana, which could attract users and builders to the blockchain network. TA: Bitcoin Revisits $58K, Why BTC Could Accelerate Towards $60K Bitcoin price extended its rise and it even tested the $58,000 resistance against the US Dollar. BTC is showing positive signs and it is likely to accelerate higher above $60,000. Bitcoin on the Balance Sheet? Corporate Buying Might Become a Global Trend Corporate bitcoin treasuries are becoming a global trend, spreading to Scandinavia and Hong Kong, following MicroStrategy and Tesla. Charted: Binance Coin (BNB) Regains Strength, Bulls Aim Fresh Break above $300 Binance coin price started a fresh rally above the $250 resistance against the USDT. BNB is gaining momentum and it is likely to clear the $300 barrier in the near term. Major Swiss retailers set to debut Bitcoin gift cards The Cryptonow voucher cards will be available in three different variants ranging from 100 to 500 francs. Ethereum Devs Confirm Berlin Hard Fork Date The long-anticipated Berlin upgrade will include optimizations to gas fee usage when it deploys to Ethereum’s mainnet next month. TA: Bitcoin Rallies above $52K, Why BTC Could Soon Hit $55K Bitcoin price rallied over 5% and it even broke the $52,000 resistance against the US Dollar. BTC is now above $53,000 and it is likely to continue higher towards $54,500 and $55,000. NFT-related altcoins hit new highs after Bitcoin price rallies to $53K THETA, $UOS and $ENJ soared to new all-time highs as the NFT craze continues and Bitcoin price closed above a key resistance level at $52,000. Charted: Uniswap’s UNI Enters Top 10, Why It Could Soon Test $42 Uniswap’s UNI climbed over 10% and it even broke the $34.00 resistance against the US Dollar. A new all-time high is formed near $34.60 and the price is likely to rise further. TA: Bitcoin Turns Attractive Above $50K, Why BTC Extend Its Rally Bitcoin price gained bullish momentum above the $50,000 resistance against the US Dollar. BTC traded towards $52,000 and it remains supported for more upsides. All you can eat: SushiSwap deploys contracts on five new networks SushiSwap has deployed its contracts on xDai, Moonbeam Network, Binance Smart Chain, Polygon, and Fantom, noting that Optimism will also be coming soon. TA: Bitcoin Turns Attractive Above $50K, Why BTC Could Rally To $55K Bitcoin price extended its rise and cleared the $50,000 resistance against the US Dollar. BTC is now consolidating gains and it is likely to climb further above $52,000. Brave Takes Aim at Google, Set to Launch Privacy-First Search Engine The crypto-friendly browser is looking to compete with one of the most dominant companies on the planet. Charted: Polkadot (DOT) Steadies Above $35, Why Bulls Aim $40 or Higher Polkadot’s DOT corrected lower from $42.00, but it remained stable above $30.00. It is now rising and it seems like the bulls are eyeing a fresh increase to $40.00 and $42.00. Ubisoft Gets Behind a New Free-to-Play Crypto Game The free-to-play game based on Belgium’s Jupiler Pro League ties into the Ethereum-driven Sorare, which recently raised $50 million. TA: Bitcoin Holding Gains, Why BTC Could Surge Above $50K Bitcoin price recovered above $48,000, but it failed near $50,000 against the US Dollar. BTC is now holding gains above $47,000 and it is likely to make another attempt to surpass $50,000. Rakuten’s customers can now use Bitcoin for shopping Japanese retailer Rakuten is making it cheap and convenient to spend cryptocurrency at supported retail outlets nationwide. Visa: 25% of Latin Americans Want to Pay With Cryptocurrencies COVID-19 changed everything, even the way people view crypto. Now, one out of four Latin Americans wants to pay with digital assets. Charted: Cardano (ADA) Holding Crucial Support, Why It Could Surge Again Cardano’s price traded to a new multi-month high at $1.48 before correcting lower. ADA declined sharply below $1.20, but the bulls were active above $1.18. Adjusted on-chain volume of stablecoins reaches all time high in February February’s adjusted on-chain stablecoin volume already broke the previous all time high according to data compiled by The Block. Dubai Fund Sells $750 Million of Bitcoin to Buy Cardano, Polkadot The Dubai-based fund says Bitcoin is “pretty useless” and altcoins like Cardano are a better bet for new investors. Crypto Giant Coinbase Pulled In $1.3 Billion Last Year, New Filing Shows Coinbase raked in a staggering $1.27 billion in total revenue ($1.14 billion in net revenue) in 2020, more than double its $483 million net revenue the previous year. TA: Ethereum Bulls Keeps Pushing, Why $1,720 Is The Key For Fresh Rally Ethereum started a steady recovery above the $1,600 level. ETH price is now facing a major resistance near $1,700 and $1,700. TA: Bitcoin Consolidates Above $50K Why BTC Could Face Bears At $52K Bitcoin price started an upside correction above the $48,000 and $50,000 levels. BTC is now consolidating above $50,000, but it could face a major hurdle near $52,000. Cross-chain bridges and DeFi integration are pushing these 3 altcoins higher Cross-chain interoperability and lucrative DeFi yield opportunities appear to be supporting the price recovery in Cardano, Matic and Stacks. Charted: Cardano (ADA) Remains Strong Above 100 SMA, Why It Could Rally Again Cardano’s price traded to a new multi-month high at $1.23 before correcting lower. ADA declined sharply below $1.00, but the bulls were active above $0.8500. Bitcoin and Big Caps Recover After $400 billion Market Rout Growth returns to crypto as serveral projects including Ethereum and Binance show double digit growth. Stock Markets were choppy. Square reports $4.57 billion in bitcoin sales for 2020 via Cash App Square said Tuesday that it conducted $1.76 billion in bitcoin sales during the fourth quarter of 2020, with $4.57 billion sold for the entirety of last year. Brave Browser Is Building Its Own Decentralized Exchange Aggregator The creator of Basic Attention Tokens wants to incentivize people to use them in a DEX. Thousands of Users Flock to Binance Smart Chain’s Latest Apps Dapps built on the Binance Smart Chain are dominating the crypto sector as PancakeSwap races ahead of Uniswap in number of active users. ‘Sustained institutional buying’ will hold Bitcoin above $50K: CrossTower A new report from CrossTower argues institutional investors will step in to hold Bitcoin’s price above $50,000. Square’s $50M Bitcoin Buy Is Now Worth $253M The value of Square’s $50 million bitcoin investment from October 2020 has increased five-fold to $257 million. TA: Bitcoin Price Climbs Above $58K, Why Bulls Could Aim $60K Bitcoin price remained in a positive zone and it traded to a new all-time high above $58,000. BTC is now correcting gains, but it is likely to continue higher towards $60,000. Bitcoin is Now More Expensive Than a Kilogram of Gold At its high today of $57,705, a single Bitcoin smashed past the price of a kilo bar of gold. Binance’s BNB becomes the third largest crypto by market cap BNB, the exchange token of Binance, has become the third largest crypto by market cap for the first time as its price rally continues. Elon Musk: Bitcoin Is ‘Less Dumb’ Than Cash The Tesla CEO said fiat money has a negative real interest and only “fools” wouldn’t look at other assets, such as Bitcoin. Nvidia unveils new processor chip built specifically for Ethereum mining Graphics card maker Nvidia unveiled a new processor chip dedicated to Ethereum mining on Thursday -- while also moving to render one of its top-shelf GPUs less useful for the process. TA: Bitcoin Approaching Key Uptrend Support, Why BTC Could Revisit $52K Bitcoin price started a downside correction from the $52,750 all-time high. BTC is now approaching a couple of important supports near $50,500. Binance Smart Chain’s Pancakeswap Is Now One of the Top DEXs Pancakeswap traded over $400 million in daily volume yesterday and briefly became the world’s second-largest DEX service. Uniswap Hits $100 Billion in Trading Volume The decentralized exchange has come a long way since it launched in May 2020. Deutsche Bank Preparing To Support Crypto Assets, Providing Prime Brokerage and Storage for Clients A World Economic Forum report is unveiling Deutsche Bank’s plans to introduce a digital asset custody platform that provides prime brokerage and storage for clients. ‘Doge Is Underestimated’—Elon Musk’s ‘Fav’ Bitcoin Rival Dogecoin Is Getting A Surprise Upgrade With the dogecoin price up a blistering 600% since late January, developers who had long ago abandoned the memecoin are back and planning to update the aging software... Some Ethereum miners are turning to gaming laptops as GPU supplies run dry Gaming laptops have become the last-resort solution for Ethereum miners chasing big returns during a GPU shortage. Mastercard to Support Cryptocurrency Payments in 2021 Mastercard is moving beyond crypto cards to support direct payments in “select cryptocurrencies”—but not Bitcoin. Charted: Binance Coin (BNB) Rallies To $125, Why Bulls Are Not Done Yet Binance coin price is up over 50% and it is outperforming bitcoin. BNB rallied above USD 100 and USD 125, and it is likely to continue higher. DeFi’s Curve Finance Is Branching Out to Polkadot It costs a lot to swap assets on Ethereum. So, Equilibrium is building out a cross-chain version of Curve Finance on Polkadot. TA: Bitcoin Consolidates Above $46K, Why BTC Could Continue Higher Bitcoin price started a downside correction after trading to a new all-time high near $48,308. BTC is now consolidating gains and it is likely to continue higher above $47,000. Litecoin’s Charlie Lee: Tesla’s Bitcoin Buy a ‘Turning Point’ The Litecoin founder said Tesla’s decision to potentially hold on to the Bitcoin it receives from consumers was “huge.” TA: Bitcoin Surges 20% To New ATH, Why BTC May Soon Test $50K Bitcoin price started a strong surge above the $42,000 resistance against the US Dollar. BTC traded to a new all-time high near $47,500 and it remains supported for more gains. Tesla Invests $1.5B in Bitcoin, Plans to Accept Crypto Payments The announcement that the crypto world has largely been waiting for is here: Tesla has invested $1.5 billion in bitcoin. Crypto exchanges drew in more than 300 million website visitors in January The number of visitors to crypto exchange websites surged in January, according to data collected by The Block. Bitcoin Whales Pile in as Global Market Cap Hits Record High Large Bitcoin investors continue their move into cryptocurrencies as global market cap surpasses $1.18 trillion for the first time. Here’s How High Bitcoin Could Go If 2017 Repeats Bitcoin is in a bull market and anyone who understands the cryptocurrency’s potential knows that much higher prices are ahead in the short- and long-term. Here’s How Much Elon Musk’s Tweets Influence Bitcoin, Dogecoin Prices A study by the Blockchain Research Lab shows the extent to which Elon Musk’s tweets affect the crypto market. Charted: Polkadot (DOT) Surges 20%, Why It Could Soon Test $25 Polkadot’s DOT started a strong surge and cleared $20.00. It is trading with a strong bullish angle and it is likely to accelerate higher towards $24.00 or $25.00. Dogecoin Price Shoots Up on Elon Musk’s ‘To The Moon’ Tweets Earlier today, Tesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted an image of a rocket soaring past the moon, adding the word DOGE. And it’s set Dogecoin rallying again. TA: Bitcoin Price Revisits $38K, Why BTC Dips Turn Attractive Bitcoin price gained bullish momentum and cleared the $38,000 resistance. BTC could correct lower, but the bulls are likely to remain active above $37,200. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Holding Key Support, Why It Could Rally Again To $0.45 Ripple corrected gains from well above $0.5000 . XRP price is holding the key $0.3400 support, and it is likely to resume higher towards $0.4200 and $0.4400. As Ethereum Rockets To A New All-Time High Price, Here Are The Major Cryptos Outperforming Bitcoin Right Now As ethereum breaks through $1,500 per ether token for the first time—up a blistering 700% over the last year—these are other major cryptocurrencies that are currently outperforming bitcoin... Bullish Bitcoin Fundamentals Point to Renewed Price Rally Ahead Bitcoin’s on-chain metrics are painting a bullish picture after weeks of consolidation, with some analysts predicting a return to $40,000. Binance Quietly Launches Its Crypto-based PayPal Rival The crypto exchange has big hopes for Binance Pay, which is currently in beta. Charted: Uniswap’s UNI Remains Elevated, Why Uptrend Isn’t Over Yet Uniswap’s UNI climbed over 10% and it even spiked above $20.00. A new all-time high is formed near $20.78 and the price is currently correcting lower. National Digital Currencies Primed to ‘Flop’, Say Researchers Central bank digital currencies aren’t needed as digital cash substitutes, say European economists Peter Bofinger and Thomas Hass. Binance Coin Sets New ATH As New User Registrations Surge Binance Coin just set yet another new all-time high today, taking out resistance set back in 2019. With the resistance level now cleared and potentially 85% Dogecoin rally shows Wall Street Bets aren’t done with DOGE yet Dogecoin rallied by more than 85%, suggesting Wall Street Bet’s crypto wing may have decided that they weren’t done with DOGE yet. ‘A Good Thing’: Elon Musk Says He’s a Supporter of Bitcoin Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has clarified that he is a bitcoin supporter, if a bit “late to the party.” Dogecoin Rises 66% as #DogecoinArmy Trends on Twitter Dogecoin today hit highs of $0.045 as the coin became popular on Twitter. Uniswap logs more than $30 billion in monthly trade volume for January Data collected by The Block Research shows that decentralized exchange Uniswap has seen just over $30 billion in volume for January. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Broke Major Hurdle, Bulls Aim Close Above $0.30 Ripple is up over 10% and it spiked above $0.3000. XRP price is showing positive signs and it is likely to continue higher towards $0.3100 and $0.3200. Elon Musk’s Twitter Bio Now Says One Word: Bitcoin The billionaire has joked about being the CEO of memecoin Dogecoin in the past but he now seems to be changing his focus. TA: Bitcoin Price Turns Green, Why $35K Is Still A Major Barrier Bitcoin price started a fresh increase above $32,500 and $33,500. BTC is showing positive signs, but $34,500 and $35,000 still presents a major resistance. DeFi’s UNI Token Jumps 92% in One Week, Passes $15 Uniswap’s UNI token has nearly doubled its price in 7 days. The decentralized exchange is seeing volumes higher than last summer, too. Bitcoin and Ethereum Rebound As Wall Street Rocked by GameStop Crypto markets appear to be bouncing back from a week of sustained losses while Wall Street records worst day since October. Reddit inks scaling tech partnership with the Ethereum Foundation Popular online forum site Reddit is partnering with the Ethereum Foundation, according to an announcement made Wednesday. In a post penned by Reddit admin TA: Bitcoin Bulls Protecting $30K, Why BTC Could Correct above $32K Bitcoin price extended its decline below $31,000 and $30,000. BTC is correcting higher and it seems like the bulls are aiming a break above $32,000. DeFi Continues Explosive Growth as Markets Remain Flat While markets continue their slide, DeFi projects like AAVE and Uniswap rack up back to back growth alongside NFTs. Major Tesla Investor Predicts Tech Companies Will Buy Bitcoin—Here’s What It Could Do To The Price Cathie Wood, the chief executive of a prominent investor in electric car-maker Tesla , Ark Investment Management, has said she thinks more companies are going to add bitcoin to their balance sheets... TA: Bitcoin Holds Strong At $31K, Why The Bulls Are Facing Uphill Task Bitcoin price is stuck in a range below the $33,500 and $33,800 resistance levels. BTC is likely to continue lower unless it clears $33,800. Circle Is Making It Easy to Go From Your Bank to DeFi With USDC USDC backer Circle has announced ACH payment integration, allowing customers to easily transfer between the USDC stablecoin and US dollars. Glassnode predicts BTC break-out as investors refuse to realize losses Glassnode believes the local Bitcoin bottom is in after the BTC’s recent crash below $30k reset its Spent Output Profit Ratio. 3 reasons why Ethereum price is still on track to top $2,000 Substantial spot volume, a favorable futures premium, and top traders buying the dip are all signals that Ethereum price should see continuation. Cryptocurrencies could eventually partially replace gold, says new report by Bank of Singapore After overcoming regulatory hurdles, digital assets could overtake local currencies as a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and a store of value. Charted: Uniswap’s UNI Explodes Above $12, Why Dips Remain Attractive Uniswap’s UNI surged over 25% and it broke many hurdles near $10.00. A new all-time high is formed near $12.98 and dips seems to remain attractive. Ethereum Booms as Investors Search for Something New Ethereum broke its previous all time high record over the weekend as the world’s second largest cryptocurrency surges. Ethereum is About to Post a Massively Bullish Signal as Bulls Take Charge One analyst is pointing to a technical pattern that suggests Ethereum has massive upside potential in the near-term. Why Polkadot Is The Hottest Crypto In China The network is especially popular among developers and investors in China. Here’s why. Charted: Polkadot (DOT) Holding Gains Despite Sharp Drop in BTC and ETH Polkadot’s DOT surged towards $18.50 before correcting lower. It is holding gains above $15.00 despite a crash in bitcoin and Ethereum. Bitcoin White Paper Now Hosted by Everyone From Square to Facebook. Here’s Why Some of the Bitcoin community’s most prominent voices (and also Facebook subsidiary Novi) are now hosting the Bitcoin white paper. Cultural Differences Explain DeFi Usage Despite being virtually identical products at launch, SushiSwap and Uniswap have taken divergent paths as they respond to users. Brazil’s Biggest Bitcoin Exchange Expanding to Other Countries Mercadobitcoin is the most popular exchange in Brazil. Now it wants to be popular across Latin America. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Signaling Bullish Breakout, Why It Could Retest $0.35 Ripple is holding gains above $0.2800. XRP price is likely to accelerate higher towards $0.3500 once it clears the $0.3100 resistance zone. Ether’s Rise to Record Highs May Propel Cryptocurrency to $10.5K: Fundstrat Global After setting a new record high Monday, the ether cryptocurrency could rally to $10,500, according to a Fundstrat Global Advisors strategist. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Holding Uptrend Support, Why It Could Rally Again Chainlink (LINK) rallied towards the $24.00 level before correcting lower, similar to bitcoin and Ethereum. The price is now trading near a major support zone at $20.00. Privacy-centered browser Brave becomes first browser to support IPFS Brave users can now download content directly from IPFS by resolving ipfs:// URIs via a gateway or by installing a full IPFS node. India’s Largest Exchange Launches User-Friendly App, Eyes 50M New Users India’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, CoinDCX, has launched a new app aimed to make it easy to buy and sell digital assets. eToro Nudges Investors Towards Crypto Trading as They Consider Portfolio Diversification Cryptocurrencies have been consistently outperforming themselves in recent days, turning into one of the hottest asset classes out there in the global Binance Coin (BNB) hits a new all-time high one day before its token burn A growing DEX ecosystem, competitive futures platform and low fee incentives pushed Binance Coin to a new all-time high one day ahead of its scheduled token burn. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Remains In Strong Uptrend, Why It Could Test $25 Chainlink (LINK) rallied after it broke the $18.00 and $20.00 levels, while bitcoin and Ethereum remained in a range. The price is correcting gains, but dips could be limited below $21.50. K-Pop Stars to Mint Digital Collectibles on Polkadot In an exclusive interview with CoinDesk, the Xeno team announced that RBW has given the NFT exchange exclusive rights to mint and list their NFT-based digital products. Ethereum is About to Flip a Key Resistance Level into Support; New Highs Imminent? One analyst is still incredibly bullish on Ethereum, noting that there’s a strong possibility it sees a test of its all-time highs. Strategist: Bitcoin more likely to be successful ‘in the long run’ than Ethereum There are many advantages the Bitcoin network has over Ethereum that caused market strategist Lyn Alden to choose investing in BTC over ETH. Elon Musk Is Starting to Truly Understand Bitcoin In a couple of tweets today, Tesla CEO Elon Musk put forward his own position on Bitcoin, only to receive an alternative view—which he acknowledged. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Revisits $18, Why It Could Soon Break $20 Chainlink (LINK) is up 15% and it broke many hurdles near $16.20, similar to bitcoin and ethereum. The price is testing a major barrier at $18.00, above which it could test $20.00. Stablecoin Risks a ‘High-Level Focus,’ Says Federal Reserve Chair Powell reiterated today during a webinar that the central bank is taking a careful look at stablecoins and their effects. Bitcoin Just Reached this “Key Zone” — Here’s What Analysts Say Comes Next Bitcoin is now struggling to break above $40k, and its reaction to this level should provide serious insight into where it trends next 5 stories that suggest crypto is moving into ludicrous territory With social media interest in Bitcoin at an all-time high, absurd things are starting to occur in the crypto space. Charted: Polkadot (DOT) Surges 35%, Key Resistance Turned Support at $10.5 Polkadot’s DOT started a strong surge after it broke $10.00. It is up over 35% this week, and it is now facing hurdles near $11.50. Charted: Why Synthetix’s SNX Could Rally To $20 While Bitcoin Corrects Synthetix’s SNX remained in a bullish zone above $15.00, despite pullbacks in bitcoin and ethereum. SNX price is likely to rally towards $20.00 if it clears the $16.00 hurdle. Bitcoin Whales Swoop in As Markets Hit Turbulence While prices have been rising and falling in quick succession, bitcoin whales appear to be increasing their holdings of BTC. More Financial Advisors Are Allocating Funds to Cryptocurrency Crypto index provider Bitwise surveyed a group of financial advisors and found there is a rapidly growing interest in cryptocurrency. Bitcoin Just Dropped Below $33,000: What Analysts Are Saying Bitcoin has begun to drop lower once again despite the flush on Monday to $30,000. The leading cryptocurrency currently trades for $32,500, below the Bitcoin Just Recovered to $35,000 After Yesterday’s 25% Crash Bitcoin is ripping higher despite yesterday’s correction. The cryptocurrency plunged as low as $30,000 yesterday as buying selling rapidly picked up on PayPal Hits $240 Million in Crypto Trading As Markets Recover PayPal records its highest ever crypto volume in one day as global market cap re-takes $1 trillion. Wall Street saw modest losses. Binance, Blockchain Firm Orbs to Sponsor New Accelerator for DeFi Innovation Binance and the Israeli firm developing a public blockchain infrastructure Orbs have teamed up to sponsor the DeFi.org accelerator. Analysts say Bitcoin price drop to $30K was ‘healthy and necessary’ The total cryptocurrency market cap fell by more than $200 billion as Bitcoin price dropped to $30,229 and altcoins correctly sharply. Kim Dotcom ‘Officially’ Joins the Bitcoin Cash Movement The controversial political activist has long been involved with the Bitcoin Cash community but now wants to make it more popular. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Dives Below $0.30, Why 100 SMA Is The Key Ripple started a strong decline after it failed near $0.3700. XRP price is currently testing a major support near $0.2600 and the 100 SMA (H4). Charted: Ripple (XRP) Eyes Fresh Rally To $0.35, Dips Remain Supported Ripple started a strong recovery wave above $0.3000 and $0.3100. XRP price is currently correcting gains from $0.3700, but dips remain limited. Bitcoin buying algos ‘seldom care about price’ in 2021, says analyst A blow-off top may yet appear but market composition has changed and 20% dips are being bought with “aggression,” says filbfilb. These Levels All Suggest Bitcoin Could Rally to $48,000 Before Peaking Bitcoin now looks poised to see further upside, and it may only be a matter of time before the crypto rallies towards $48,000. The Cryptocurrency Market Is Now Worth More Than $1 Trillion Around 1% of all the money in the world is now held in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and other cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin Tops $37K, Setting Record, Hours After Roaring Past $36K The price of bitcoin soared to a new-all time high of $37,014.58, before settling back to $36,780.78, up 6.40% over the last 24 hours. Bitcoin Price Breaks $35,000 Barrier for Another All-time High The price of Bitcoin has risen 26% in the last week and increased 10% in the last 24 hours. TA: Ethereum Prints Bullish Break: Why ETH Could Surge Above $1,200 Ethereum started a fresh increase above $1,050. ETH price is showing positive signs and it is likely to continue higher towards $1,200 and $1,250. Bitcoin Is Now Among Top 10 Most Valuable Global Assets With a market cap of $638 billion, the total value of Bitcoin is close to the share values of Tesla and Alibaba. Charted: Stellar (XLM) Prints Bullish Breakout, Why It Could Test $0.20 Stellar started a strong increase above $0.1500. XLM price is trading nicely above $0.1500 and it could continue to rise towards $0.1800. Ethereum Price Explodes Past $1,100 as Bitcoin Stagnates Ethereum is in the midst of rocketing higher despite stagnation in the Bitcoin price. Just minutes ago, the cryptocurrency pierced $1,100 after holding All-time highs meet altseason: 5 things to watch in Bitcoin this week Bitcoin preserves $30,000 so far but a mammoth rise in Ether and a market dominance drop sets the tone for an altcoin surge. Ethereum Just Tapped $1,000 Amid Colossal 30% Rally Ethereum has shot higher over the past 24 hours as Bitcoin has tried to consolidate after a 10% New Year’s Day rally. ETH is now up around 30% in the past Charted: Polkadot (DOT) Surges 15%, Why Rally Isn’t Over Yet Polkadot’s DOT started a strong surge after it broke the $5.40 resistance. It is up over 20% this week, and it even rallied above $7.00. Litecoin Overtakes XRP’s Market Cap As Price Slips to $0.17 XRP is no longer the fourth-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization. Now, Bitcoin spinoff Litecoin holds that title. TA: Ethereum Retreats Without Testing $750, Why 100 SMA Is The Key Ethereum started a downside correction from the $746 yearly high. ETH price is likely to find strong bids near the $684 and $675 support levels. Whale Sightings Become Scarce, Removing Downward Pressure on Bitcoin: Analyst Big bitcoin balance holders, or “whales” are moving less crypto onto exchanges, signaling some reduction of sell-side pressure, according to CryptoQuant. US federal regulators set new expectations for stablecoin issuers New statement from a federal financial working group sets clearer expectations for stablecoin issuers. Polkadot-Based DeFi Insurance App Raises $1.95M Led by KR1 Tidal will use the Polkadot blockchain to allow users to insure a set of DeFi applications against smart-contract failure or breaches. Bitcoin Miners Turn Savers as Price Hits All-Time High; What It Means Bitcoin miners used to be the biggest cryptocurrency dumpers when its price traded near all-time highs. Nevertheless, their sentiment has changed Bitcoin Dominance In December: Why The Future Of Altcoins Hinge On This Month’s Close Bitcoin is well above its former all-time high, but the “alt season” where altcoins explode in value relative to the top-ranked cryptocurrency has yet to Why Ledger Kept All That Customer Data in the First Place A dump of customer emails and addresses serves as a stark reminder that even companies in the privacy-minded crypto space are data honeypots. Charted: Binance Coin (BNB) Rally Reaches Crucial Juncture, Why It Could Test $40 Binance coin price is up over 7% and it is outperforming bitcoin against the USDT. BNB could rally further if it clears the $35.50 resistance zone in the near term. Dogecoin (DOGE) Up 20% on the Day After Elon Musk Tweet Dogecoin (DOGE) is up 20% in the past 24 hours despite Bitcoin, Ethereum, and other segments of the crypto market correcting after a jaw-dropping rally. Move over, Kickstarter: NFTs are the newest way for indie games to fundraise In-game economies and NFTs mean that blockchain-based video game crowdfunding investors might get more bang for their buck than a few trinkets Twitter loses its mind over rapper’s ‘$1M Bitcoin giveaway’ worth $11 each Megan Thee Stallion’s fans have been whipped into a frenzy at the prospect of receiving $11 worth of BTC in a promotional giveaway. Wrapped ETH Comes to Tezos as It Takes on Ethereum DeFi Market StableTech has brought wrapped ETH tokens to the Tezos blockchain in a bid to win over DeFi users sick of high fees on Ethereum. 5 of the Best Yield Farming Opportunities For 2021 Yield farming was the defi craze of summer 2020, taking the nascent industry by storm and ushering in new ways to distribute tokens, engage communities, Bitcoin Sailing in Uncharted Waters as Price Crosses $22K for First Time Bitcoin is heading north having blown past two price hurdles to reach another record all-time high, trading for around $22,150 at press time. Germany legalizes digitized securities A new law in Germany will render old requirements to trade securities using physical papers obsolete. Bitcoin Breaks Through $20,000 To Hit A Fresh All-Time High Bitcoin surged to $20,800 today, notching an all-new record level. When will this digital currency break through another key, psychological level? Open interest in Bitcoin derivatives hit new highs this week This week saw open interest in bitcoin options and futures surge to new highs, according to data collected by The Block Research. Fund Managers Head for Bitcoin as US Dollar Weakens Bitcoin piques the interest of global wealth managers as an alternative to a weakening greenback while Wall Street sets new records. Binance Visa cards are now shipping to European customers Physical Binance Visa Cards are now shipping within the European Economic Area region. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Approaching Make-or-Breaks Levels, $0.47 Is The Key Ripple is struggling to settle above $0.5000 and declining. XRP price must stay above $0.4800 and $0.4750 to avoid a major downside break. PayPal stock has surged 17% since enabling Bitcoin purchases PayPal’s stock has vastly outperformed the Nasdaq and S&P 500 over the past month. The gains appear to coincide with the launch of its crypto trading services on Nov. 12. AAVE and SNX Surge Higher as Coinbase Finally Adds the DeFi Coins Like many other exchanges, Coinbase has been focusing on decentralized finance (DeFi) over the past few months. The rise of decentralized exchange Charted: Litecoin Bullish Breakout Suggests Larger Rally To $90 Litecoin price is up over 5% and it broke $80.00. LTC is showing positive signs and it could continue to rally towards $90.00 and $95.00. Revolut adds four new cryptos for European users on its digital bank platform The U.K.-based digital bank startup Revolut said Friday that it is adding four additional crypto tokens and currencies for its Europe-based users. 5 key metrics signal Ethereum price is ready to make a new 2020 high Ethereum price is closing in on $600 and multiple metrics suggest the top altcoin is ready to notch a new 2020 high. Chainlink Could be on the Cusp of Rocketing Higher as Strength Against BTC Grows Chainlink still has a way to rally before it reaches its all-time highs in the lower-$20.00 region, but a move to here could be imminent. Theta network enhancements usher in smart contract capabilities Theta’s new upgrade is now live, bringing smart contract capabilities and a reduced staking threshold. Ethereum Defends Pivotal Technical Level Despite Yesterday’s Drop Ethereum and Bitcoin underwent a strong drop the other day after days of consolidation. Ethereum slipped from the $590 region to lows around $550, marking Charted: Ripple (XRP) Breakdown Looks Real, Why It Could Retest $0.45 Ripple broke a major support at $0.5740, similar to bitcoin and ETH. XRP price is likely to continue lower towards $0.5100 or even $0.4500. Apple Co-founder Wozniak’s Crypto Doubles in Price Overnight The Efforce crypto token, which goes by WOZX, hit a high of $2.77 on December 8 after trading for a low of $1.32 on December 7. PSA: Few Days Remain For XRP Holders To Claim Spark Tokens, Here’s How XRP has a major bullish breakout recently, resulting in an over 200% rally. And while bullish technicals had been building, it was the Flare airdrop and Wells Fargo: Bitcoin and Other Cryptocurrencies Are No Fad The traditional banking firm suggests that crypto naysayers are wrong to call it a fad, but stops short of recommending investment… for now. Investors Split Over Where Bitcoin Goes Next As Markets Cool Sentiment is mixed among Bitcoin investors as indicators point to continued bull or emerging bear markets. Nasdaq records record day. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Signaling Next Crucial Break, $0.62 A Key Barrier Ripple is trading in a contracting range above $0.6000. XRP price is setting up for a major break either above $0.6200 or below $0.5800. TA: Bitcoin Stuck In A Crucial Range, Why $19.5K Is The Key Bitcoin price is still trading in a broad range below $19,500. BTC must gain strength above $19,500 to start a fresh rally in the near term. Gold bug says 2021 will be a big year for Bitcoin and Ethereum The reduction in Bitcoin mining rewards is having a profound impact on price discovery, says Frank Holmes. For Ethereum, he say the demand driver is coming from DeFi. Bitcoin Stalls while Ethereum Breaks New Records Bitcoin’s price settled over the weekend, but Ethereum grew thanks to the boom in Defi and Eth 2.0 rollout bringing more users. Charted: Ripple (XRP) is Primed For a Rally And Only 1 Thing is Holding it Back Ripple started a downside correction below $0.6500. XRP price is likely preparing for the next major move, similar to bitcoin and ETH. 1 Million ETH Gets Locked up in Ethereum 2.0 Over $600 million is now staked on the world’s most-used blockchain, just days after its ‘beacon chain’ launched. Polkadot launches DeFi alliance with Chainlink and will let 1000 nodes bloom Polkadot has launched a DeFi Alliance to help its network meet the needs of decentralized finance. Stablecoins: the First Battleground of Crypto Regulation Wars The STABLE Act would force stablecoin issuers to have bank licenses, a move that could portend legal challenges for the industry. Analyst: XRP Likely to Explode to $0.75 as Market-Wide Momentum Returns One trader explained in a recent tweet that he is watching for XRP to see some massive momentum in the near-term. Ethereum miners brought in $262 million in revenue last month Miners on the Ethereum network made roughly $262 million in revenue during November, an increase over October’s figures. Theta Labs Launches Its Blockchain Video Delivery Platform in Beta Theta Labs says it plans to democratize content delivery with its decentralized video platform, now live in beta. TA: Why Bitcoin Must Clear $19.3K To Start A Fresh Rally Towards $20K Bitcoin price remained in a range above the $18,500 support . BTC is trading above $19,000 and it could start a strong surge if there is a clear break above $19.3K US lawmakers seek to make stablecoins illegal without federal approval The Stable Act aims to “protect consumers from risks posed by emerging digital payment instruments.” Charted: Ripple (XRP) is Facing Uphill Task Near $0.63 and 100 SMA Ripple started a fresh decline after it failed to clear $0.6800. XRP price is showing bearish signs below the 100 hourly SMA and facing many hurdles. Libra Rebrands to ‘Diem’ in Anticipation of 2021 Launch The Libra Association is rebranding itself Diem to distance itself from the original multi-currency stablecoin vision. This Economic Model Predicts a $200,000+ Bitcoin Price by 2022 Despite seeing some short-term turbulence, one economic model is still forecasting an incredibly bullish year for Bitcoin. What the YFI and SushiSwap ‘Merger’ Means for DeFi Yearn Finance is joining forces with SushiSwap to enhance both protocols. The latest DeFi collaboration could benefit users looking for innovative projects and better security. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Signaling Sharp Increase To $0.72 In Near-Term Ripple started a fresh increase above $0.6000, similar to bitcoin and ETH. XRP price is likely to continue higher towards $0.7000 and $0.7200. Ethereum 2.0 Launches Tomorrow. Here’s What to Expect There’s not a whole lot users must do during Phase 0 of the proof-of-stake network. TA: Bitcoin Inching Higher, Why BTC Could Rally To New ATH Above $20K Bitcoin price is up over 5% and it is trading above $19,500. BTC bulls seem to be aiming a new all-time high above the $20,000 resistance. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Looks Ready For Another Leg Higher Over $15 Chainlink (LINK) remained stable above $11.50 and started a fresh increase, similar to bitcoin. The price is trading above $13.50 and it could surpass $15.00. Yes, You Can Spend Your Bitcoin This Black Friday “Hodling bitcoin is still important, but to support a circular economy, we need both sides going.” Bitcoin Black Friday aims to do just that. Bitcoin Indicator Reaches Historical Extreme: Price Sheds Two Thirds Upon Reversal Bitcoin price this week reached a high of $19,500, following a six-week, 60% rally. From the moment the first-ever cryptocurrency made it above $12,000, Cambridge and Oxford teams compete in algorithmic crypto trading contest APEX:E3 is providing seed capital and mentorship to each of the 15 teams, but only the winners get to keep their profits. Market Wrap: Bitcoin Loses Momentum at $19.4K; Ethereum Fees Increasing Bitcoin’s price rise stalled out just before hitting $19,500 Wednesday while the Ethereum network’s fees are in an upswing. Filecoin storage tops 1 billion GB as tokenized FIL launches for use in DeFi Anchorage and Tokensoft unveiled wFIL on the same day that Filecoin announced its storage capacity has exceeded one billion gigabytes. Verge, Dash, and Status Follow XRP Higher Amid Absurd Crypto Rally The crypto market is in a phase where altcoins from the previous rally, 2017′s bull market, are absolutely ripping faces off. While Bitcoin is up 5% in Ethereum 2.0 Deposit Contract Has Enough Funds to Launch The smart contract required for triggering Ethereum 2.0 has enough funds to begin activation of its most ambitious upgrade yet. XRP Continues Rapid Ascent With 15% Gain, Outperforming Bitcoin by 1,000% XRP has been one of the best-performing cryptocurrencies over the past day. After lying dormant for much of the past few months, the cryptocurrency has Friendliest of them all? These could be the best places for crypto The U.S. has its regulatory downfalls, but Decred’s co-founder sees it as the best for crypto, while Horizen’s co-founder said Puerto Rico tops the list. If Bitcoin Followed Tesla’s Path, It Would Hit $125,000 in the Next Year Bitcoin has undergone a strong rally over the past few weeks, rallying from the $11,000 range to $18,700 as of this article’s writing. A comparison Charted: Litecoin Is Outperforming Major Altcoins, Why Dips Remain Attractive Litecoin price is up over 10% and it broke $80.00. LTC is consolidating gains and dips are likely to be limited below $78.00 and $76.50. Bitcoin Now Has a Greater Market Cap Than Mastercard Bitcoin reached 16th place among the world’s biggest entities after its market capitalization grew to nearly $335 billion. Bigger Than Netflix? Filecoin Hits 1 Exabyte of Storage The decentralized blockchain storage network wants to take on centralized cloud storage. It’s hit a major milestone on that journey. XRP Shows Signs of Bottoming as Analysts Watch for Serious Upside One analyst is noting that there’s a possibility that further upside is imminent, as XRP just bounced at a previous resistance level. Dell-owned VMware launches blockchain platform for enterprises Dell-owned software company VMware has commercially launched its blockchain platform for enterprises. Bitcoin analyst sees ‘perfect backdrop’ for $100K this bull cycle, $1M by 2035 Bitcoin can pass its $20,000 all-time highs within weeks, says Alex Saunders, while Ether only needs a year to beat its own record Charted: Ripple (XRP) Could Restart Rally If It Clears The $0.30 Hurdle Ripple started a downside correction from $0.3080. XRP price is trading above $0.2900 and it must surpass $0.3000 for a fresh rally. XRP is on the “Verge of Something Big” as Trader Targets Move to $0.85 One analyst is even going so far as to note that a move up to the range between $0.50 and $0.85 could be right about the corner for XRP. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Holding Key Support, Why Bulls Could Aim $15 Chainlink (LINK) gained momentum after it broke $13.00. It traded towards $14.25 before correcting lower sharply, but it seems like dips remain limited. Why Bitcoin price just flash crashed 6% after rejecting at $18.5K Bitcoin sharply dropped after nearing $18,500 on Binance and Coinbase. The plunge comes as large sell orders were spotted on both spot and BTC futures exchanges. Yearn.finance (YFI) Explodes $4,000 Higher in An Hour: DeFi Bull Run Yearn.finance (YFI) is erupting higher as Bitcoin pushes to new year-to-date highs. The coin is up 20% in the past 24 hours alone, rocketing from under Charted: Ripple (XRP) Smashes $0.30, Why Pullbacks Could Be Limited Ripple surged over 12% and it even broke $0.3000. XRP price is currently trading near $0.3010 and dips might be limited in the near term. Uniswap May Re-up Rewards as SushiSwap Angles to Catch Itinerant Yield Farmers A new Uniswap governance vote would continue yield farming rewards for certain asset pairs as the original allocation ends. IBM’s new gaming patent envisions using blockchain consensus in an MMO MMOs on the blockchain? A new patent awarded to IBM highlights the tech’s role in running games with huge player bases. This Indicator Shows Bitcoin May Surge Before Seeing a 20%+ Pullback One analyst is now pointing to the benchmark cryptocurrency’s RSI indicator for insights into where Bitcoin may trend next. Bitcoin Cash Has Split Into Two New Blockchains, Again Bitcoin Cash split into two blockchain again, but one of the new chain has received no hashpower so far. Charted: Litecoin Surges Above $65, Why It Could Test $70-$72 Litecoin price is gaining momentum above $65.00. LTC is likely to continue higher towards the $70.00 and $72.00 resistance levels. Yearn.finance’s YFI Could Soon Rally Past $20,000 as Technical Strength Grows One trader is pointing to a recently formed pattern, noting that he believes that Yearn.finance’s YFI is poised to rally significantly higher Polkadot is the most popular network for staking, nearly $3 billion worth of DOT tokens are at stake Layer-1 blockchain network Polkadot is the most popular when it comes to staking. According to The Block Research, nearly $3 billion worth of DOT, Polkadot’s native token, are at stake. Charted: Litecoin Prints Bullish Breakout, Why LTC Could Surpass $65 Litecoin price is gaining momentum above $62.00. LTC is likely to continue higher (similar to bitcoin), and it could even break $65.00. Binance launches Ethereum mining pool, with lower fees than rivals Crypto exchange Binance has launched an Ethereum mining pool, seven months after launching a Bitcoin mining pool. PayPal’s crypto trading goes live in the US Customers will be able to trade up to $20,000 a week, rather than the originally announced $10,000. TA: Bitcoin Surges 5%, Why Pullbacks Remain Attractive To The Bulls Bitcoin price started a strong increase after it broke the $16,000 resistance. BTC is up 5% and it is now facing hurdles near $16,500. Game on: Crypto users can rent servers for titles including Minecraft A crypto payments network has signed a partnership with one of the top five gaming server providers worldwide Bitcoin Posts High Time Frame Breakout as Analysts Eye $17,000+ One trader is now noting that a move towards $17,000 could be imminent if bulls are able to post a high time frame close above $16,000. Bitcoin fees plummet as mempool clears to zero The Bitcoin mempool cleared to zero this week, making it possible to get transactions confirmed in the upcoming block for 3 sat/byte fees, for the first time since mid-October. TA: Ethereum Could Rally To $500 If It Clears The $470 Barrier Ethereum is slowly rising and trading above $460. ETH price is likely to rally towards $495 or $500 if it clears the $470 resistance zone. Bitcoin Daily Volume Up 270% This Week, Pushes Past $3 Billion New data from Arcane Research shows surging Bitcoin trading volume in the first week of November. Bitcoin futures trading on CME is also trending higher. Pivotal Ethereum DeFi Metric Just Hit a New All-Time High Even after the recent rally, the prices of top DeFi coins are down massively since the summer highs. Data from CoinGecko indicates that the average DeFi Filecoin’s storage power is back growing again amid FIL lending surge The effective storage power on Filecoin has grown 40% since miners’ standoff in mid-October following network upgrades and the surge in FIL lending. Why Yearn.Finance Surged 21% in 1 Day Amid Strong DeFi Resurgence Yearn.finance (YFI) has surged 21% on the day. It is continuing to show strong momentum following a DeFi marketwide resurgence. UK Treasury to Provide Framework on Stablecoins Private stablecoins “could transform the way people store and exchange their money,” said HM Treasury. DeFi Coins AAVE, RUNE, SNX Hold Up Despite Bitcoin Correction Decentralized finance (DeFi) coins have undergone an extremely strong recovery from last week’s lows. As of last night, at the highs of the recovery Here’s Why Bitcoin Could See One More Correction Before Its Uptrend From last week’s highs, Bitcoin sustained a heavy correction into Saturday. The cryptocurrency fell from $16,000 to a low of $14,300, marking the first Chainlink is About to Shatter a Crucial Resistance Level as Analysts Eye $13+ One analyst is watching for a move to over $13.00. He points to Chainlink’s ability to hold strong above all of its short-term time frames. Ripple Sets Up Regional Office in Dubai As New Global HQ Plans Loom Large Ripple, the $10 billion fintech company responsible for XRP, is set to open a regional HQ in Dubai, while the plans for a new global HQ are still being hammered. Charted: Litecoin Rallies 10%, Indicators Suggest Rally To $70 Litecoin price is gaining momentum above $60.00. LTC is likely to continue higher (similar to bitcoin) towards $70.00 or $75.00. ‘Formula E’ racing title among four NFT-powered games announced today Animoca Brands and Formula E are teaming to launch racing game with NFTs, while Skymarch has partnered with Enjin to develop three token-powered games DeFi and NFT Collide...With Aave Providing Battle Rewards Aave and Axie Infinity, winners from the summer’s DeFi and NFT expansion, are joining forces to promote one another and reward users. Bitcoin Almost Taps $16,000 as Price Explodes 15% in 24 Hours Bitcoin has continued to explode higher in the face of a further drop in the U.S. dollar. The price of the leading cryptocurrency has almost reached Charted: Cardano (ADA) Needs To Clear $0.10 For Hopes of a Fresh Rally Cardano’s price is correcting higher from $0.0880. Bitcoin price is surging, but ADA must climb above $0.1000 to start a strong rally. Bitcoin price reaches $14,500, the highest level since January 2018 A lively day of trading amid U.S. election uncertainty sees Bitcoin add to its gains which took it above pivotal $14,000 resistance Charted: Ripple (XRP) Bulls Face Uphill Task Near $0.24 Ripple started an upside correction from the $0.2280 support. XRP price could start a strong rally if it clears the $0.2400 resistance zone. Bitcoin Drops as Trump Threatens to Stop Vote Counting Bitcoin fell after President Trump alleged “fraud” in the presidential election and pledged to stop vote counting. Bitcoin breaches $14,000 on election day, up 1,900% compared to 2016 Bitcoin has only been around for two US presidential elections, but the price has risen significantly with each successive race Ethereum 2.0 Deposit Contract May Soon Be Released The launch of Ethereum 2.0 (ETH2 or Serenity) has long been expected. It was first slated to arrive earlier this year, but multiple delays have pushed ‘This is just the beginning’: PayPal CEO highlights planned push to support more digital currencies PayPal’s CEO struck a bullish tone on central bank digital currencies and his firm’s potential involvement with them during its Q3 earnings call. Crypto Browser Brave Hits 20 Million Monthly Users Brave’s monthly active user count has increased 230% in the past year. Australia to explore blockchain-based wholesale central bank digital currency The Reserve Bank of Australia said on Monday it is exploring the potential use of a blockchain-based central bank digital currency in a wholesale form. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Holds Strong, Bulls Could Aim Fresh Test of $0.25 Ripple found support near $0.2320 and recovered higher above $0.2380. XRP price is consolidating gains and it could rally towards $0.2500. European Central Bank Asks Public About Decentralized Euro The European Central Bank wants to hear your views on the future of the euro. Possible Bitcoin Plunge as Elections Near Could Spark Massive Altcoin Rally One analyst is now noting that he expects Bitcoin to put in a temporary top around $13,800, and potentially spark a massive altcoin rally. Uniswap moves closer to a new five million UNI airdrop Some analysts are warning of a potential “governance quagmire” should UNI whales abuse governance proposals to advance their interests Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Prints Bearish Pattern and It Could Revisit $10.20 Chainlink (LINK) started a sharp decline after forming a HS pattern (as discussed in the previous analysis). The bears are gaining strength and aiming a test of $10.20. A Whopping $2 Billion in Bitcoin Is Now on Ethereum While Bitcoiners wait for the price to rise, they’re putting their money to use on Ethereum. Bitcoin Dominance Is Days Away From Triggering A 30% Rally Against Alts Bitcoin smashing through $12,000 gave the cryptocurrency enough momentum and energy to take out $13,000 and revisit last year’s highs. But while it did Protocol Labs launches Filecoin Archives with digital library Internet Archive Crypto company Protocol Labs has partnered with digital database Internet Archive to launch Filecoin Archives, a community project meant to preserve information at risk of being lost. The team behind decentralized data service Filecoin has partnered with Internet Archive to launch Filecoin Archives Pattern Shows Ethereum Could Be Ready to Surge Despite Pullback One analyst is pointing to a few key patterns that suggest Ethereum is bound to see some notable upside in the near-term. ConSensys collaborates with Banque de France digital euro partner Blockchain firm ConsenSys is becoming increasingly active in the central bank digital currency space. Charted: Ripple (XRP) is About to See “Liftoff” if it Clears $0.255 Ripple is showing positive signs above the $0.2500 support. XRP price could start a strong rally if it clears the $0.2550 resistance zone. Economist: Bitcoin Could Be Setting Up for an Ideal Short Opportunity One economist believes that Bitcoin could extend this momentum past this its resistance and reach $15,000 before seeing a strong selloff. KPMG, Coin Metrics Partner to Grow Institutional Crypto Adoption The “Big Four” accounting firm and cryptocurrency market data provider have announced a plan to integrate some of their products. Audius Distributes Crypto to RAC, Deadmau5 Listeners The blockchain-based music platform sent 50 million in AUDIO tokens to its “top 10,000 artists and fans.” East meets West as eight top projects join global DeFi alliance Top western DeFi firms will collaborate with their eastern counterparts on strategies for risk management, liquidity provision, and fostering innovation in decentralized finance Bitcoin Fan Jack Dorsey to Talk DeFi at Africa Fintech Summit Dorsey’s keynote “will revolve around the concepts of decentralized finance and opportunities it creates for financial inclusion.” Chainlink Rejected At Key Mathematical Level, But Geometry Points To Upside Chainlink is the best performing crypto asset of the top ten cryptocurrencies by market cap in 2020, and the years prior since it first came into Bitcoin Drives Market Up As DEXes Deflate Bitcoin’s plaudits continued to weigh in on the project’s performance over recent months, while DeFi’s downturn starves decentralized exchanges. Survey: Most professional European investors bought digital assets or plan to Survey on professional investors finds that 36% have already bought crypto, as big pockets look to enter the market. Alibaba Founder Jack Ma: “Digital Currencies” Are the Future Jack Ma blasted global regulation and said that “digital currency could create value” during a speech yesterday. Analyst: Chainlink Forms Most Bullish Setup Ever as Chance of Upside Grows One trader is now pointing to a multitude of different factors that highlight just how bullish Chainlink is at the moment Funds locked in DeFi surge $1B as analyst tips post-election bull run Crypto collateral locked in DeFi protocols has surged to an all-time high of over $12 billion as round two of the bull market begins. TA: Bitcoin Short-term Pullback Could Be Attractive To The Bulls Bitcoin price extended its rise to a new monthly high near $13,200. BTC is consolidating gains and dips are likely to remain attractive. PayPal Finally Welcomes Cryptocurrencies, Including Bitcoin, Ethereum The company’s CEO said the “shift to digital forms of currencies is inevitable.” Charted: Litecoin Price Daily Timeframe Indicates Strong Uptrend To $65 Litecoin price is gaining momentum above $55.00. LTC is likely to continue higher towards $60.00 or $65.00 as long as above the 100-day SMA. Top DeFi Coins Finally Make Recovery: Aave, Ren, Chainlink Surge 10% Earlier this week, all eyes were on Bitcoin, not DeFi. The leading cryptocurrency shot a handful of percent higher while altcoins actually began to move Breakout or fakeout? Top traders react to Bitcoin price rally to $12K Bitcoin price rallied to $11,900 but traders are unsure whether the move is a breakout or a fakeout. Top Crypto Game Splinterlands Now Supports Brave’s BAT Token The partnership also means Splinterlands will implement Brave as its official browser while Brave will advertise one of the most popular crypto games out there. Bitcoin Sees Significant Breakout as Analysts Claim “$13,000 is on the Table” For Bitcoin to enter a bull market, its price must surmount $13,000. A move past this level could put fresh all-time highs back on the table Nearly $900 million in VC went to crypto companies in the third quarter of 2020 During the third quarter of 2020, $897.7 million in venture funds were allocated across 212 crypto and blockchain startups, according to data compiled The TA: Ethereum Could Narrowly Avoid a Major Drop if it Closes Above $380 Ethereum extended its decline below the key $365 support. ETH price is correcting higher and it must surpass $380 for to avoid another bearish wave. Total Value of All Ethereum Assets Surpasses Staggering $100,000,000,000 The total value of all assets in the Ethereum ecosystem has breached $100 billion dollars, according to the blockchain database startup Messari. Analyst: Chainlink Likely to Rally to $16.50 as It Approaches Key Level One analyst notes that Chainlink is nearing the apex of a pennant that has been forming in the time following its decline from $20.00. Digital Yuan Rolls Out for Use in Shenzhen Gas Stations Citizens can make fuel and retail payments using a state-backed mobile application that operates without the use of the internet and does not charge transaction fees. Filecoin Launch Finally Brings $200M ICO to Fruition Filecoin, designed as a decentralized alternative to Amazon Web Services, is now live as of block height 148,888, or 14:44 UTC. Charted: Filecoin (FIL) Rally Takes Breather, Key Uptrend Support at $60 Intact Filecoin (FIL) started a strong rally above $60.00 $65.00. The price is correcting lower, but there is a strong support near $60.00. Analysts Think Uniswap’s UNI Could Surge to $4.30 Next; Here’s How One trader is noting that a move past $4.00 could be imminent, but it is imperative that Uniswap’s UNI first reclaims a key support level. Watchmaker Breitling will issue Ethereum-based authenticity certificates Breitling, the 136-year old luxury watchmaker based in Switzerland, has begun issuing Ethereum-based digital certificates for its watches. TA: Ethereum Looks Ready For Another Leg Higher Unless It Dives Below $365 Ethereum failed to clear the $388 resistance. ETH price is currently holding the $365 support and it could resume its upward move. Crypto Exchanges Prep for Filecoin’s Long-Awaited Mainnet Launch Kraken, Huobi and Gemini confirmed that they will list the token ahead of launch. Analysts Expect Chainlink to See Accumulation Before Rocketing Higher If Chainlink is in an accumulation phase, then a visit to its near-term resistance levels may be imminent in the days and weeks ahead. JPMorgan believes more payment companies will enable bitcoin purchases similar to Square’s Cash App Banking giant JPMorgan believes that more payment companies will allow their clients to purchase bitcoin (BTC) via their apps, similar to Square’s Cash App. Charted: Ripple (XRP) Price Could Rally 10% If It Clears $0.26 Ripple remained in a positive zone above $0.2500. XRP price is likely to rally further if it clears the main $0.2600 resistance. Bitcoin Should Be 5% of Your Investment Portfolio, Says Fidelity New research from Fidelity shows Bitcoin is uniquely decoupled from the movement of other asset classes, and suggests how it should fit into your investment portfolio. DeFi Token Maker Sets New TVL All-Time High As Crypto Market Takes Pause Maker, an early DeFi token that helped get the now unstoppable trend off the ground, has set a new all-time high in total value locked, just as the rest Charted: Cardano (ADA) Daily Chart Indicates A Significant Bullish Wave Cardano’s price surged above $0.1000 and started a strong increase. ADA is likely to continue higher towards $0.1250 in the coming days. Billionaire UK newspaper owner calls DeFi technology ‘revolutionary’ UK media boss and former banker Alexander Lebedev has revealed he is looking to launch a decentralized finance-powered “bank 2.0.” This Trader Doesn’t See Why Bitcoin Can’t Hit $12,000 Soon After starting last week rather weak, Bitcoin began to push higher into Friday and into the weekend, ending up pushing as high as $11,500. For context, Ethereum 2.0 Around the Corner After Successful Zinken Trial The client teams will use the testnet results to make “final preparations for a mainnet launch,” says Ethereum researcher Danny Ryan. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Seems Unstoppable As Bulls Take Over Crypto Market Chainlink (LINK) started a strong increase above $10.00. The price is now attempting another upside break above the $11.00 resistance. Ethereum miners made 450K ETH from high network fees during DeFi peak On-chain data shows Ethereum miners saw a 39% surge in revenue as fees soared during the DeFi craze. Chainlink Whales Continue Accumulating Despite Signs of Technical Weakness One analytics firm explained in a recent tweet that data shows whales have been accumulating massive amounts of Chainlink in recent times. $1.5 billion in Bitcoin now locked up in Ethereum Bitcoiners are looking to make the most of Ethereum’s decentralized finance smart contracts Lightning network vulnerability discovered, upgrade immediately The lightning vulnerability was made public on Oct 9. Ethereum’s fees higher than Bitcoin’s for a record two straight months Ethereum’s fees have been more expensive than Bitcoin’s for a record-long streak, but developers aren’t finding consensus on how to resolve the problem. Charted: Chainlink (LINK) Prints Bullish Break, But Facing Uphill Task Near $10 Chainlink (LINK) found a strong buying interest above $8.50. The price is trading above $9.20, but it must surpass $10.00 for more gains. Wrapped Bitcoin tops $1B after 900% increase in two months The recent DeFi frenzy has seen $900 million worth of Bitcoin tokenized using Wrapped Bitcoin over the past two months. Google Cloud Does Not Intend to Take EOS Rewards as a Block Producer Following news of yesterday’s partnership with Block.one, Google Cloud says it is not getting into EOS for the tokens. Binance’s Approach to DeFi: Be Like Netflix, Not Kodak Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao, better known as CZ, closed out the LA Blockchain Summit on Wednesday by talking about DeFi, decentralization, and staying relevant. Analyst Who Predicted Yearn.finance (YFI) Drop to $14k Expects $12k It’s been a tough past few weeks for the DeFi market, especially for coins like Yearn.finance’s YFI token and the Curve DAO Token. Ethereum hashrate hit a new all-time high amid DeFi growth Ethereum’s hashrate, or the network’s processing power, hit a new all-time high yesterday amid continuous growth in the decentralized finance (DeFi) space. Chainlink (LINK) Technicals Suggest A Strong Case For Break Below $8 Chainlink (LINK) started a fresh decline after it failed near a major hurdle at $11.00. It could accelerate lower below $8.00. Yearn.finance (YFI) Resumes Downtrend Following Rejection at $20,000 Analysts are noting that further downside could be imminent in the near-term for Yearn.finance (YFI), which could lead it down towards $15,000 Google Cloud Joins Forces With EOS Google is the first Silicon Valley giant to seek to become an EOS block producer. Through this new partnership, Google Cloud will work with Block.one to enable new ways for its open-source community of developers to engage and build applications on EOS. Ethereum Key Indicators Suggest A Strong Rally if it Clears $355 Ethereum is trading near a major resistance at $355. ETH price is likely to accelerate higher once there is a proper close above $355. MetaMask hits 1M monthly users thanks to DeFi boom The booming DeFi sector is driving up MetaMask’s user base, with the popular Ethereum wallet report now reporting more than one million active monthly users MakerDAO Fundamentals Could Boost Maker (MKR) After DeFi Correction It’s been a tough past few weeks for all leading decentralized finance coins. DeFi craze propels Uniswap monthly volume to $15.3B, surpassing Coinbase Uniswap processed $15.3 billion in monthly volume in September, outpacing Coinbase and signalling that DeFi is here to stay XRP Price Gains 6% Following Strong Recovery XRP is outperforming the market in the short term, but has struggled against other top ten cryptocurrencies when measured year-to-date (YTD). Cryptocurrency exchanges generated over $169B in trading volumes in September Cryptocurrency exchanges in The Block’s legitimate volume index reported over $169 billion in volume for the month of September. Polkadot (DOT) Could Incur Strong Correction as Macro Support Nears It’s been a tough past few days for all altcoins. Polkadot (DOT), especially, has suffered. The native digital asset of the Polkadot ecosystem has shed a European Central Bank publishes report on digital euro, says ‘we need to be ready’ to issue it The European Central Bank (ECB) has today published a comprehensive report on digital euro, saying that it needs to be prepared to issue a digital currency if and when the need arises. Bitcoin, Dow Futures Slid As Trump Tests Positive for COVID-19 Bitcoin plunged alongside the US stock futures in early morning trading on Friday after Donald Trump revealed that he and his wife Melania tested positive Australian government’s digital business plan includes $5M for blockchain Australia’s Prime Minister has announced the Federal Government’s biggest investment in blockchain to-date, with two pilots set to receive almost $5 million Ethereum Prints Bullish Technical Pattern, Why Close Above 365 Is Critical Ethereum is showing positive signs above the key $355 support. ETH price could accelerate higher if it clears the $365 resistance zone. Something New is Cooking at SushiSwap SushiSwap has unveiled a new website and other product improvements. Is a move to Solana next? Maker (MKR) Surges 7% as Stability Fees Introduced, DeFi Regains Footing While decentralized finance (DeFi) has seen a strong surge in 2020, Maker (MKR), a token strongly tied to DeFi, has underperformed. Ethereum 2.0 developers will run another testnet ‘Zinken’ Ethereum 2.0 developers will run yet another testnet “Zinken” in the coming days as the Spadina testnet didn’t go smoothly enough. Chainlink (LINK) Bulls Facing Uphill Task: Here’s Why $11 Holds The Key Chainlink (LINK) started a strong upward move above $9.00. The bulls are facing a strong resistance near $10.50, $11.00, and 100 SMA (H4). Goldman Sachs looks to add international hires to its digital assets team Investment banking giant Goldman Sachs is looking to round out its digital assets team with two new international hires. Uniswap’s UNI Bounces at Key Support as the Bull Case Continues Growing One analyst believes that upside could be imminent for Uniswap’s UNI, noting that it is imperative that bulls reclaim $4.70 in the near-term Chainlink (LINK) Presses Past $10 as Weekly Chart Remains Bullish Chainlink (LINK) has been one of the top-performing crypto-assets after its crash early last week. The coin is up 5% in the past 24 hours alone, outpacing Coinbase wallet users targeted by new Android malware This alien doesn’t care about taking over the Earth, but it may steal your Bitcoins and dollars. CEO: Dropping whale inflows positive for Bitcoin, lifeline for DeFi market? CryptoQuant CEO Ki Young Ju says Bitcoin whale inflows are decreasing. For decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens, it could serve as a lifeline. Yearn.finance (YFI) On “Life Alert” After Weak Attempt To Hold Support Yearn.Finance (YFI) had such an abrupt rise to fame, now that momentum has changed, the plunge could be equally as dramatic. Thus far, any attempt to hold Ocean Protocol and Balancer Want to Do for Data What Uniswap Did for Coins Ocean Protocol is teaming up with Balancer Labs to create the first automated market maker (AMM) for datasets. Key Reasons Why Bitcoin Could Nosedive Below $10,000 In Near-Term Bitcoin price failed to correct higher and declined below $10,200. BTC remains at a risk of more downsides below the $10,000 support. Biggest Expiry of Ethereum Options Looks to Amp Up ETH Volatility Ethereum price volatility is likely to ramp up this week with crypto’s biggest expiry of ETH options this Friday. Canadian Regulated Cryptocurrency Exchange Wealthsimple Begins Trading Following the regulatory sandbox approval by Canadian regulators, Wealthsimple announced that it has launched “Canada’s first regulated crypto platform.” The new crypto exchange is regulated by the federal government as well as regulators in 13 provinces and territories in Canada. Bitcoin Weekly Momentum Flips Bearish For The First Time Since April With Bitcoin holding strong above $10,000, the halving in the past, and months of positive price action, it is hard to not be bullish on the first-ever Bitcoin-on-Ethereum Token tBTC Relaunches Following Buggy Debut in May TBTC, a decentralized way to copy bitcoin (BTC) over to Ethereum, is relaunching today after a smart-contract bug sunk the project in May. DEX Token UNI Trims Gains by Half in Brutal Sell-Off; Rebound Ahead? UNI logged a rollercoaster opening session last week after rising by almost 2800 percent in just less than 24 hours. The token reached a record level of Joke MEME coin airdrop is now worth $600K The MEME crypto asset has blasted into new all-time highs of $1,775 after being listed on Poloniex. Coronavirus Is Shaping Up To Be Very Bad For Banks—But Not For Bitcoin As banks, with their expensive branch networks and legacy computer systems, struggle in the post-Covid, digital-first world, bitcoin and cryptocurrencies are expected to see a “pandemic-led acceleration of adoption”... Here’s why this Ethereum exchange fork lost $500m in locked value As much as it may be looked down on in the “real world,” the crypto industry is full of copycats. Kraken Shows How Crypto Companies and Banks Are Evolving Together Kraken’s move to become a bank in Wyoming is more about getting traditional finance to adapt to the crypto industry than the other way around. Top 5 cryptocurrencies to watch this week: BTC, NEO, XMR, ADA, LINK Bitcoin is attempting to form a bottom altcoins continue to decline, which opens up opportunities on the long and the short side New Hardware Wallet Feature Fends Off Bitcoin Dusting Attacks Hardware wallet company Ledger introduced a new software feature, Coin Control, which guards the privacy of users transacting in Bitcoin. Fantasy authors turn the VulcanVerse NFT game into a trilogy of books Two of Britain’s most successful gamebook authors will turn VeChain’s VulcanVerses NFT game into a fantasy trilogy series. Ethereum Fees Spike After Uniswap’s UNI Token Launch Uniswap’s launch caught DeFi off guard—a move that resulted in major problems for congestion on the Ethereum network. Technicals Point Towards Ripple (XRP) Increase To $0.27 Despite Some Roadblocks Ripple is gaining pace above $0.2500. It seems like XRP is aiming a run towards the $0.2700 resistance level as long as it is above $0.2400. 13,000 DeFi users have already claimed Uniswap’s new UNI token Uniswap is taking on SUSHI head on with the launch of a new governance protocol token UNI, leading to a flurry of activity from more than 13,000 DeFi users. China’s BSN Will ‘Localize’ Public Blockchains for Local Use The state-sanctioned Blockchain-Based Service Network is bringing public chains to China, according to an internal memo obtained by CoinDesk. The First Crypto US Bank: Kraken Received Licensing From The Wyoming Banking Board Kraken has become the first cryptocurrency exchange to receive a US banking charter issued by the Wyoming Banking Board. Binance-Listed Bella Token (BEL) Witnesses Over 1000% Price Surge The native token of Bella Protocol, BEL token, surged by a whopping 1000% in less than three hours after Binance listing. From a mere $0.75. During … Ethereum’s Moving Averages Point to “Bullish Continuation” With a $1,000+ Target One trend seen while looking towards Ethereum’s daily moving averages is incredibly bullish and is strikingly similar to one seen in 2016. Filecoin: Understanding the Complex Crypto System Meant to Rival AWS Filecoin and its FIL token might be the most complex thing the blockchain industry has ever brought to market. Here’s what you need to know. Tether Uses Centralized Power to Refund $1 Million in USDT After a group of DeFi traders mistakenly sent $1 million to the wrong address, Tether swooped in to help recover the funds. Ethereum 2.0 Gets One Last ‘Dress Rehearsal’ Before Launch A second pre-launch sandbox, the Spadina testnet, is coming for Ethereum 2.0, with a specific focus on deposits and genesis testing. How Does The Next Chapter In The Tether Printing Story Unfold For Bitcoin If Bitcoin reacts to the recent substantial printing of more Tether stablecoins the same as it has in the past, we may finally have a catalyst for the DeFi comes to New York as Gemini lists Compound Pax Gold and Amp are also the latest additions to the exchange. Binance Coin (BNB) Sees Parabolic Rise as Popularity of Binance Chain Grows One trader is looking towards a continuation of Binance Coin’s uptrend, explaining that it has allowed BNB to shatter a crucial resistance Bitcoin Engineers Rediscover Huge Blockchain Vulnerability A vulnerability in the Bitcoin network—now fixed—could have led to entire systems of nodes being shut down. Luckily, hackers never took advantage of the bug. BTC locked in DeFi increased by 20X the entire Lightning Network this week Despite the recent mini price crash, DeFi users have injected more than 20,000 Bitcoin into DeFi projects in the last week, suggesting the DeFi bull run isn’t over. USDC Stablecoin Supply Is up 250% in 2020. Here’s Why Supply of USDC, the Coinbase-backed stablecoin pegged to the US dollar, has grown 80% since July and is showing no signs of slowing down. Tezos (XTZ) Reaches Critical BTC Support as Sellers Grow Aggressive One analyst observed that Tezos (XTZ) has been showing some signs of intense weakness against its BTC trading pair in recent days. How to Watch INX’s IPO in Real Time on the Ethereum Blockchain Doing its IPO on the Ethereum blockchain gives the public, and INX itself, a novel vista on the process, which traditionally has been a back-room affair. Underdog Story: Why XRP Could Soon Outperform Bitcoin And Ethereum XRP has become among the more somber stories of the crypto market since the bubble burst. The once third-ranked asset has fallen down the list of top Do or Die For Bitcoin Bulls: Here’s What Could Trigger A Sharp Decline Bitcoin price struggled to gain momentum above $10,400. BTC is currently trading near $10,000 and remains at a risk of a sharp decline. DeFi Race Is Ethereum’s to Lose, Say Crypto Companies A survey of representatives from popular DeFi protocols found most expect the Ethereum network to hold off competition from other networks. DeFi Is Hot but Retail Interest Nowhere Close to ICO Frenzy It may be too early to draw parallels between the DeFi explosion and the ICO bubble of two years ago. Ethereum Above 100 SMA Could Trigger A Sharp Relief Rally Ethereum is recovering higher and trading above $335. ETH price is likely to accelerate higher if it clears the $360 level and the 100 hourly SMA. Exchanges suffer as Chinese users chase DeFi gains Chinese demand for DeFi is surging, with local exchanges struggling under the weight of withdrawals destined for yield farming protocols. Binance Jumps on the DeFi Bandwagon With Binance Launchpool Users can securely farm new assets on Binance Launchpool as part of the cryptocurrency exchange’s pivot into DeFi products. What Happened to DeFi Project SushiSwap Over the Weekend SushiSwap experienced a tumultuous weekend after its founder sold $13 million’ worth of his stake in the decentralized, automated market maker project. Chainlink (LINK) Surges 25% Higher as Altcoin Market Recovers Altcoins such as Chainlink took a strong beating over the past three days, plunging dozens of percent from their recent highs as Bitcoin and Ethereum Blockchain enhancing Mining as Vale completes first blockchain Iron ore transaction Blockchain is being leveraged across the mining sector and major mining firm Vale and its partners completed its first iron sale on blockchain Binance takes on DeFi with Uniswap competitor and liquidity mining Crypto exchange giant Binance is delving deeper into the world of DeFi-style products with its latest offering, an automated market maker called Binance Liquid Swap. Ethereum wallet service MetaMask Mobile App now available on Android and iOS Crypto wallet service and Web3 browser MetaMask’s mobile app is now available on Android and will soon be accessible on iOS as well. Yield farming frenzy pushes Uniswap daily volume over $1 billion Uniswap has become the first decentralized exchange to tag ten-figure volumes amid the yield farming frenzy and vampire attacks from rival platforms Tron (TRX) Outperforms Bitcoin, But Here’s Why It Could Correct Lower Tron price is up over 5%, while bitcoin is down over 5%. TRX is testing a crucial resistance near $0.0385 and it could correct lower. XRP May Be Primed for a “Massive Breakout” After Reclaiming Crucial Levels One analyst is pointing to XRP’s ability to reclaim the level where its first bull ran first began as a positive sign for its outlook. DeFi Meets Real Estate as Aave Readies Crypto Mortgages RealT is working with Aave to stake tokenized real estate shares as collateral for loans. Ripple (XRP) Breaches $0.30: Next Bullish Levels Traders Should Watch Ripple extended its rise above the $0.2920 resistance. XRP price even broke the $0.3000 resistance and it is currently correcting gains. Ethereum miners generated all-time high fee revenue of $17 million yesterday Ethereum miners are gaining big as transaction costs or gas fees continue to rise amid decentralized finance (DeFi) boom. Ethereum Rallies 5%: Here’s What Could Lead It To $500 Milestone Ethereum extended its rally by 5% and it broke $440. ETH price is likely to break the $450 resistance, above which the bulls might aim $500. BitMEX Launches Mobile Trading App in 140 Countries Leading cryptocurrency derivatives exchange BitMEX has launched its mobile trading app in 140 countries, the exchange told CoinDesk. DeFi Lender Aave Hits $300 Million in Flash Loans Two months ago, lending protocol Aave had only issued $14 million in flash loans total. They did that amount in a single transaction this weekend. Litecoin Price Holds Strong at $60: A Bullish Case For Rally To $70 Litecoin price is gaining momentum above $60.00. LTC is likely to continue higher towards $68.00 or $70.00 as long as it is above $58.00. Nigerian crypto startup Yellow Card nets $1.5 million in VC Crypto exchange Yellow Card recently expanded into South Africa and Botswana, and in September will launch its service in Kenya and Cameroon. Chainlink Bulls May Target $19.00 as Long as They Hold One Key Level One analyst explained that as long as bulls guard against a dip below $17.00 in the coming few hours, Chainlink (LINK) could rally to $19.00. DeFi Studio Framework Labs Leaves Stealth Mode With $8M in Seed Funding Framework Labs – a firm that incubates and supports DeFi projects – has stepped out of the shadows with the announcement of a successful seed funding round. Binance Coin (BNB) Gains 5%, Technicals Indicate Fresh Monthly High Above $24 Binance coin price is up over 5% and it broke the $23.00 resistance. BNB is likely to continue higher and it could even surpass $24.00 and $25.00. Gemini Trading Widget Added to Popular Privacy Browser Brave Brave users can trade and access Gemini account balances directly from the browser, while creators can use Gemini to take custody of earned BAT. Bitcoin Could Rally Above $11,500 As Double Bottom Pattern Emerges Bitcoin price is forming a strong support and a possible double bottom near $11,140. BTC is likely to rally if it clears the $11,500 resistance. DeFi dashboard startup Zapper nets $1.5 million in seed round A UI for DeFi has netted $1.5 million in seed round funding after winning Kyber’s DeFi Hackathon last year. Chainlink Forms Strong Base of Support as Analysts Eye Move to All-Time Highs One trader is expecting the strong support just below Chainlink’s current price to act as a launchpad that sends LINK up towards $19.00. Cardano Pays out Higher Staking Rewards Than Expected After migrating to a proof-of-stake blockchain last month, Cardano has started doling out the rewards. Ripple (XRP) is Plunging, But It’s Too Early to Say Bulls Have Given Up Ripple is declining and it broke the $0.2800 support. XRP price is currently correcting higher, but upsides are likely to remain capped near $0.2810. Aave takes number one slot in total value locked, beats MakerDAO Decentralized lending and borrowing protocol Aave has taken the number one slot in total value locked (TVL), snatching that position from rival MakerDAO. Why Are Small Cap Altcoins Outperforming Bitcoin And Other Major Crypto Assets? Bitcoin broke above $10,000 and is trading well above the key level. Ethereum is up over 200% year to date, and the rest of the crypto market is right Ethereum Price Holds Strong at $400: Technicals Suggest It Could Outperform Ethereum gained bullish momentum above the $400 resistance. ETH price is currently consolidating above $400 and it is likely to climb above $410. Analyst: The “Real” Altcoin Party Begins In Early 2021 Thus far, 2020 has been the year of the altcoin, not Bitcoin. Which altcoin is the year’s biggest star may be arguable, but its quite clear that the Cosmos (ATOM) adds 10% as it smashes its all-time high Cosmos (ATOM) has broken through the stratosphere of late with gains upward of 130% this month and a further 10% rally in the past 24 hours. Key Reasons Why Ethereum Might Not Stay Below $400 For Too Long Ethereum is holding a crucial support zone near $380. ETH price seems to be basing for the next move and it might surge above $400 in the near term. Crypto apps hit all-time-high last month as bull market roars The top ten crypto wallet applications hit all-time-highs last month, according to a report by Apptopia published on Thursday. Polkadot (DOT) Flashes Technical Strength, but Analysts Fear Slowing Momentum Despite a strong technical outlook, analysts are also concerned that Polkadot’s massive growth will cause DOT to see slowing momentum in the near-term Popular Ethereum wallet MetaMask adopts new software license as firm eyes commercial opportunities MetaMask, the popular Ethereum wallet service, has migrated its open-source code under a new limited license, the firm announced Friday. Lightning Labs users can send bigger payments with Wumbo Lightning Labs has added Wumbo channels to let users send larger bitcoin transactions via Lightning Network channels. Ripple (XRP) Price is Primed For a Bullish Break And Only 1 Thing is Holding it Back Ripple is holding important supports near $0.2800. XRP price is currently testing a crucial resistance near $0.2980, above which it could rally significantly. OMG price skyrockets by 90% after Tether integration OMG: this token is on fire! But can Tether’s USDT stablecoin really be enough to keep the flames burning? Tether is moving 1 billion USDT coins from TRON to Ethereum blockchain Stablecoin issuer Tether is today moving 1 billion USDT coins, or 8% of its total supply, from TRON to Ethereum blockchain. Chainlink (LINK) Breaking This Single Level Could Spark a Fresh Surge Chainlink (LINK) started a sharp downside correction from $19.93. It is now trading above the $15.00 support and eyeing a fresh surge above $17.00. How DeFi is ushering in the age of ‘cypherpunk governance’ With the explosive rise of DeFi has come radical new ways to collectively make decisions. The Ethereal Sessions virtual conference on Thursday takes a deeper look. Tether goes live on the OMG Network to combat congestion on Ethereum After announcing plans to integrate Tether (USDT) into the OMG Network at the end of May, the stablecoin is now live on the network. Waves Sees Over 100% Weekly Rally as Stablecoin Launches on Ethereum WAVES has seen a surge of well over 100% over the past week, while a stablecoin built on the platform is launching on Ethereum (ETH). The new launch establishes a port between the two competing blockchains. Bulgarian Startup Will Pay You Bitcoin When Your Flight Is Delayed The Colibra app is providing a means for air travelers delayed for any reason to receive compensation in crypto Cardano’s Aparna Jue: ‘We’re letting the world in to run the network’ Learn more about the Shelley hard fork and future development plans as she joins The Decrypt Daily podcast. Litecoin Could Be Next In Line For Surge: Technicals Indicate Push To $80 Litecoin price is gaining momentum above $65.00. LTC is likely to continue higher towards $75.00 or $80.00, similar to bitcoin and ethereum. Bitcoin Surges Past $12,000, Posting A 73% YTD Return Bitcoin surged to a new 2020 high of $12,486, posting a 73% year-to-date return on investment. Here are the key factors driving its price. Ripple’s XRP spikes 8%, price nears yearly high Following in Bitcoin’s steps, Ripple’s XRP appears to be shaking off the bearish sentiment of the last two years and now testing a yearly high. Huobi launches DeFi-focused consortium with MakerDAO, Compound and more Huobi DeFi Labs, Huobi Group’s new research and incubation platform focused on decentralized finance, has launched a new consortium effort. Compound (COMP) Could Rally 25%+ as Analysts Eye Technical Strength Compound’s recent momentum coupled with its technical outlook indicate that COMP may be just days away from reclaiming its recent highs. Binance saw the highest web traffic among other crypto exchanges in July Crypto exchange Binance had the highest number of visitors in July at 25.0 million, followed by Coinbase and BitMEX, with 22.5 million and 6.9 million visitors, respectively, according to The Block Research. Curve becomes third DeFi protocol to hit $1 billion in total value locked Curve, a decentralized exchange (DEX) for trading stablecoins, has become the third decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol to hit $1 billion in total value Ethereum Price Soars To New 2-Year High: Uptrend Isn’t Over Yet Ethereum climbed over 8% and it broke the main $400 barrier against the US Dollar. ETH price traded to a new 2-year high above $430 and it is likely to continue higher. Tron (TRX) Rallies 15% And Showing Early Signs of A Strong Uptrend Tron price rallied over 15% and it surpassed the key $0.0220 resistance zone against the US Dollar. TRX could correct lower in the short term, but the price action suggests more gains. Twitter opens up to developers ahead of decentralization push A friendlier approach and a new API suggest a fresh attitude—one that could well serve its potential decentralized future. Ripple aims to become ‘the Amazon of payments’ says CEO Ripple is reportedly struggling to find use cases for XRP and its underlying technology and is looking to shift its strategy. ETH up 10% in 24 hours, crosses $400 yet again ETH sees it’s highest price since the end of the boom, in August, 2018. Chalk it up to DeFi Madness? Curve’s CRV token launches early, benefitting anonymous ‘Chad’ An anonymous developer deployed the open source contracts for the hotly anticipated DeFi governance token, CRV. The Curve team has confirmed the token has launched. Chainlink (LINK) Surges 20%... Again: What Analysts Think Is Next Chainlink (LINK) is ripping higher once again, despite a stagnation in the price of Bitcoin and other top cryptocurrencies. The altcoin is up 20% in th Chainlink (LINK) Soars 30% To New ATH, Dethrones Bitcoin Cash Spot Chainlink (LINK) rallied over 30% and it traded close to the $17.000 level against the US Dollar. It dethroned bitcoin cash and moved to the 5th spot in terms of the market cap. Iran urges citizens to invest in oil, Winklevoss says try Bitcoin instead Iran’s government is urging its citizens to invest in oil. But the asset has only struggled this year. Ethereum transaction fees reached an all-time high of $6.87 million yesterday Ethereum transaction or gas fees reached an all-time high of $6.87 million yesterday, August 12, according to The Block Research. Bitcoin, gold bounce following bullion’s biggest single-day decline in 7 years Gold was up Wednesday morning after posting its worst day in seven years a day prior. Animoca Targets Non-Crypto Gamers by Developing Big Brand Games The CEO of Animoca Brands, Yat Siu discussed his firm’s strategy of bringing the benefits of blockchain technology to non-crypto-native games with loyal audiences Coinbase exits trade group following admittance of Binance.US Coinbase has resigned from cryptocurrency and blockchain advocacy group the Blockchain Association following the admittance of Binance.US. Tezos Surges 45% Month To Date, Why This Is Just The Start Tezos, a close contender for the top ten cryptocurrencies by market cap, has gone on a powerful, over 45% rally in the last 11 days. These incredibl Here’s Why Compound (COMP) Is Up 7% While Ethereum Is Plunging It’s been a tough past few days for the crypto market. Bitcoin and Ethereum are both down by approximately 5% in the past 24 hours ETH 2.0 client teams move toward launch with Medalla test network The Medalla test network is serving as a kind of dress rehearsal for Ethereum 2.0′s eventual mainnet launch. Ethereum Transaction Fees Are Reaching Highs Not Seen Since 2015 Despite stagnation in the value of ETH, demand for Ethereum transactions continues to increase day after day. Ripple (XRP) Signaling Fresh Rally After This Key Technical Breakout Ripple is forming a strong support base above the $0.2800 level against the US Dollar. XRP price is showing positive signs and it seems like it could rally above the $0.3100 and $0.3200 levels. A Race To Dominate Crypto Debit Cards Has Begun Enterprise companies like Mastercard, Visa, and PayPal have shown a lot of interest in the crypto card/reward space. This is why the competition in the debit crypto card space will get fierce. DeFi platform Compound launches permissionless price oracle Money market protocol Compound has released its own price oracle as part of its efforts to migrate to the Open Price Feed. Bitcoin trading s