Title: Ford Mustang Mach-E GT Performance Edition turns torque up to 634lb ft

Text: The Ford Mustang Mach-E GT made its debut in September, promising more of the performance expected from some of its long-standing internal combustion counterparts. Expanding the range yet further is the GT Performance Edition, bringing more torque and tweaked aesthetics to the all-electric SUV. European availability is yet to be announced, however first cars are set to be available in late summer 2021. As with the standard GT, the model pairs an 88kWh battery with an electric motor on each axle for a combined output of 459bhp. This is significantly more than the most powerful Mach-E so far which produces a more demure 332bhp and 429lb ft for reference, and is more powerful than an actual Mustang GT, which produces 444bhp from its 5-litre V8. Torque is where the Performance Edition pulls ahead, with an additional 34lb ft giving it an impressive output of 634lb ft of torque – for reference, that’s 146lb ft more than the Tesla Model Y Performance, and more even than the most powerful road-legal Mustang ever, the Shelby GT500. > Ford Mustang Mach-E makes UK debut As you’d expect from an all-wheel drive, all-electric car acceleration is brisk – 3.7sec is enough to cover the 0-62mph sprint, 1.4sec quicker than the ordinary Mach-E AWD. Top speed is a somewhat low for its class at 124mph, 13mph quicker than its standard siblings, but the range-topping Model Y goes on to a top speed of 155mph. Figures for the Performance Edition are yet to be confirmed, but expect to see a drop of a tenth or two in the 0-62mph sprint. Due to its heightened performance and slightly smaller battery pack, the Mach-E GT’s range is rated at 310 miles (WLTP) on single charge, sacrificing 25 miles over the standard Mach-E AWD and 69 miles RWD variants fitted with the extended 99kWh battery. WLTP figures for the Performance Edition haven’t been disclosed, but US EPA figures suggest it will sacrifice around 15 miles of range over the standard GT. The Mach-E doesn’t just bring extra performance to the package though, as it will also feature a host of extra kit as standard including Ford’s MagneRide adaptive suspension, larger 20” wheels, Ford Performance seats and exclusive colours including Grabber Blue and Cyber Orange. Styling changes are subtle, however the use of a grille more traditional in appearance bridges the visual gap between it and the Mustang Coupe, as well as allowing for larger air intakes to keep that uprated powertrain cool. Pricing for the standard Mach-E will start at £40,270, rising to £46,000 for the AWD variant when it does eventually arrive in the UK later this year, but we expect the GT to cost from around £60,000 to match Jaguar’s recently updated I-Pace and the upcoming Tesla Model Y Performance when it goes on sale locally in late 2021.