Title: Microsoft Is Helping to Build a Weather Supercomputer

Text: (Photo via Microsoft) Microsoft and the Met Office, the UK's national weather service, are teaming up to develop a weather and climate supercomputer, which will be the world's most advanced machine dedicated to meteorology. The goal is to better prepare the UK public for severe weather and a changing climate. In February 2020, the UK government committed £1.2 billion ($1.7 billion) of funding to develop this state-of-the-art supercomputer, which is expected to be up and running by the summer of 2022. Once operational, it will work in a myriad of ways: Improve projections for risk-based planning Enhance emergency preparedness ahead of local storms, heavy rain, and flooding Increase access to greater amounts of weather and climate data Provide more accurate wind and temperature information for the aviation industry, driving greater fuel efficiency and safety "We are delighted to be working in collaboration with Microsoft to deliver our next supercomputing capability," Met Office CEO Penny Endersby said in a statement. The national weather service is no stranger to supercomputing: In November 1997, its Cray T3E 900/1200 was ranked third in the world. "Working together, we will provide the highest quality weather and climate datasets and ever more accurate forecasts that enable decisions to allow people to stay safe and thrive," Endersby continued. "This will be a unique capability that will keep not just the Met Office but the UK at the forefront of environmental modelling and high-performance computing." The decade-long collaboration is expected to deliver scientific and technological innovation, and provide the UK an impressive £13 billion ($18 billion) in financial benefits. "The Met Office has long been synonymous with excellence and innovation in our understanding of the impact of weather and climate," said Clare Barclay, CEO of Microsoft UK. "To make progress with the ecological challenges we face requires innovation, technology, and partnerships. "The potential of the deep expertise, data gathering capacity, and historical archive of the Met Office," she continued, "combined with the sheer scale and power of supercomputing on Microsoft Azure will mean we can improve forecasting, help tackle climate change, and ensure the UK remains at the forefront of climate science for decades to come."