Title: How this fruit became the star of Italian cooking

Text: (CNN) — Paolo Gramaglia loves tomatoes. The owner and chef of the Michelin-starred President restaurant in Pompeii, his link with the fruit is so strong, he says, that he and it are intrinsically entwined. Not that he thinks he's special -- he thinks all Italians have the same relationship with the pomodoro. "Tomatoes are in our DNA," he says. "We grow up with tomato in our recipes. They've become the symbol of our gastronomy." And he's right. Whether it's a scarlet-slicked pizza or a red-sauced spaghetti al pomodoro, Italy's most instantly recognizable dishes both include tomato. Even the emoji for pasta isn't just pasta -- it's a steaming plate of spaghetti heaped with tomato sauce on top. But while today we think of tomatoes as inextricably linked to Italian food, that hasn't always been the case. In fact, it was only during the 19th century that tomatoes really hit the tables of the Bel Paese. Before that, it was widely  the world? From Naples, tomato-eating gradually spread over the Spanish-dominant parts of Italy, and then beyond says Del Soldato -- although you'll still find less tomato in northern regions. By the 19th century, says Zancani, people were teaming them with pasta -- maccheroni with tomato sauce probably came in the middle of the 19th century, he reckons -- as well as mixing them with beans and other foods. Del Soldato says that people in her region, Tuscany, took quickly to tomato and adapted it to their "cucina povera" (poor people's food). "Tuscan cuisine is based on not wasting anything, so if you have leftover meat, you cook it the following day with tomato -- giving it more flavor with the tomato sauce. I think this obsession with not wasting food is very typical of Italian Caribbean paradise. We're talking 730 acres of rolling forested hills and pristine white beaches, surrounded by warm blue ocean. It is, to be frank, a deep-pocketed developer's dream. This isolated wonderland is connected to the rest of the world by a 10-minute boat ride to nearby Ragged Island, where a private airstrip awaits. But if you prefer to arrive by superyacht -- because that's just the kind of high-living baller you are -- there's also deep water access for large ships. There are freshwater ponds, snorkeling and sailing opportunities, excellent flats for fishing, and you can also chill on the beach and watch flamingos. Grouper, snapper, barracuda, tuna and kingfish swim the reefs, while the woods are rich in lignum vitae trees, known for their medicinal properties. If you prefer to climb a hill and survey with satisfaction the full richness of your domain, the elevation rises from sea level to 40 feet (just over 12 meters). As for development opportunities, there's enough space to build a boutique resort with 18-hole golf course, or if you're an evil criminal mastermind, you could create a really high-end Bond villain lair. It's the Bahamas, baby. Concierge Auctions Related content Italian town sells €1 houses with no deposit required Little Ragged is on sale through Concierge Auctions , a US real estate company that auctions properties to the highest bidder and claims a client list that includes a few names you might just have heard of, such as Cher and Michael Jordan. The company also handled the most expensive US home to ever hit the auction block, so if you're hoping to swing some kind of bargain on this, you'd best keep scrolling through Zillow. To join in the bidding, you need to stump up a $100,000 deposit, but there's no reserve price. It's listed at $19.5 million, but there is no minimum bid or expected minimum bid. "We have received a great amount of interest in the auction so far, which is expected for this is a one-of-a-kind opportunity," Laura Brady, co-founder and CEO of Concierge Auctions, tells CNN Travel. "We are confident that the Concierge Auctions platform will bring an unmatched reach to global buyers throughout the auction process." Private virtual viewings are available online. Bidding opens March 26, 2021 and closes March 31. If you miss out on this opportunity, the Blue Estate Group recently unveiled plans for the man-made Blue Estate Island close to the Bahamas, where property prices start at $19,800 and rise to over $1 billion. culture," she says, pointing out braciole rifatte -- breaded meat stewed in a tomato sauce -- as the perfect example. And as agriculture became a science, the Italians started creating different varieties of tomato. Related content The Italian town where they eat 500-year-old meals Today, where in many countries "tomatoes" just means "tomatoes," go to Italy and you'll be assailed by a choice of myriad varieties. Some are best in salads, and some best used in cooking. That's where the San Marzano variety comes in -- that long, easy-peeling plum tomato, hailing from the sunny Naples and Salerno area of Campania, that top pizzerias shout from the rooftops. Mechanization saw Italy's tomato scene go global. Dino Fracchia/Alamy It's mechanization and modernization that catapulted the tomato into the global consciousness. When canning goods came into fashion across the world, tomatoes really took off. Zancani says that in the 1800s, American entrepreneurs were tinning tomatoes and exporting them back to Europe. But it was only after World War II that they were produced on a mass scale. The marshy land around the Po Valley, in the north, was quickly judged suitable for tomato-growing, he says, adding that the area around Parma, Modena and Piacenza is still Italy's tomato hub today. The Italian obsession Once the Neapolitans started eating tomato, it quickly became synonymous with pizza. Tiziana Fabi/AFP/Getty Images Of course, other nations make major use of the tomato -- it's a staple of Mediterranean diets, for starters -- but Italy's obsession is particular. Ask an Italian, and they'll immediately tell you their favorite type of tomato. For Zancani, it's the cuore di bue ("ox's heart") -- an enormous, meaty salad tomato known for its lack of water. For Del Soldato -- who goes out of her way in Philadelphia to buy canned tomatoes and passata from Italy -- it's the squished, multiple-folded pomodoro fiorentino, which Tuscans use with onions, eggs and basil in a dish called fricassea. Luckily, she says, Delaware grows "brandywine" tomatoes which remind her of the fiorentino. And for Paolo Gramaglia it is, of course, the San Marzano, which he claims has a rare umami taste. "The secret of a great spaghetti al pomodoro is to look at it for 10 to 15 seconds," he says. "That way, it goes first to your brain, then your soul, and then your mouth. And it has a calming effect." A good spaghetti al pomodoro, he says, sees "the tomato making love to the spaghetti." Simple as it is, he loves the dish so much that he says, he "can't not serve it" -- even in his Michelin-starred restaurant, and has turned the dish into an amuse bouche -- "a forkful of spaghetti impregnated with tomato."
