Title: How to Teach a Kid to Ride a Bike

Text: Here at Bicycling, we maintain there are few pursuits more noble than teaching someone to ride a bike, and those early instructors—teachers, parents, the kid next door—remain the unsung heroes of the everyday cycling world. But as honorable as it is to give a child or adult the gift of two-wheeled independence, it’s not always easy to nail it the first time. After all, for most of us, learning to ride was something we did decades ago. We’ve since forgotten a lot of the emotions and challenges along the way, and that vulnerable feeling of trying to balance for a few pedal strokes. Here are a few things to avoid when you’re trying to teach someone to love riding as much as you do. Don’t start on the street shapecharge Getty Images You want someone to feel completely at ease the first time they sit on a bike saddle, and unless you live in an empty cul-de-sac, the street will never be the place for that. Start your new rider in an empty parking lot, trail, or park. Don’t use training wheels Trevor Raab This is the old-school way of teaching kids how to ride a bike, and though it can still work, it’s less effective than the current method: gliding. You don’t need a special bike to teach the glide method—just take the pedals off an ordinary bike and lower the seat so the new cyclist can sit on the saddle with both feet on the ground. Teach them to push off with their feet and glide on the bike. Once they can safely balance for a few seconds, add the pedals back, move the seat up, and teach them to pedal. This method is far more effective at teaching the balance necessary to ride than training wheels—which require a greater leap of faith to remove. Even better if you have a young child learning to ride: balance bikes. All balance bikes work similarly in that the child sits low, knees bent, and uses their feet to push their bike along. As speed and familiarity increase, the rider goes feet-up to experience a few thrilling moments of balanced flight on two wheels. So if you’re looking for a new bike for your child, the balance bike is one of the best ways to build their confidence over the old-school training wheels. The Best Balance Bikes for Kids Strider 12 Sport $120 | Buy Now The OG brand's most popular bike Woom 1Balance Bike $199 | Buy Now A hand brake teaches kids how to stop from the beginning Prevelo Alphazero $199 | Buy Now A lightweight aluminum frame is easier for kids to push around Haro Prewheelz $110 | Buy Now A slightly cheaper option with plenty of colors Don’t start them on an ill-fitting bike Shutterstock Sure, your ride student isn’t going to climb Mount Washington or embark on a cross-country bike tour the minute you teach them how to turn their pedals. But that doesn’t mean they shouldn’t start out on a bike that fits comfortably. Find a bike they can easily stand over without making contact with the top tube and reach the handlebars without straining. No one wants to keep riding on a too-large bike that’s scary to mount and dismount. Even better, get them a proper bike fit so everything is set up properly from the start. Don’t hold on to the bike and push or run alongside Blend Images - Mike Kemp Getty Images Remember when your dad ran alongside your bike, swearing up and down he would never let go of the saddle, and then launched you into a lifetime of uncertainty and distrust with one resounding push? Well, we do. And we promise it’s not an effective tactic, particularly because the act of running alongside tends to wobble the bike and counteract any balancing technique your student should be learning. Let them build momentum through their own pedal strokes. Don’t pressure them to go too fast or far, too soon Westend61 Getty Images You’re excited. You just taught your kid, spouse, best friend, or an unwitting stranger how to successfully pedal a bike. But pump the brakes for a minute there—this doesn’t necessarily mean you have a new ride partner or tandem stroker. Let them practice for a while at their own pace. Let them learn to slow-roll around a parking lot or around a trail. Don’t push them to ride on the road or take on more mileage than they’re prepared to.  Don’t push your own goals and agenda on them wundervisuals Getty Images This one is similar to “don’t pressure them to go too fast or far” but has more to do with end goals. Once you’ve successfully got a new cyclist pedaling, don’t treat the event like it’s a training ride for bigger, more exciting bike rides. You want them to get the hang of riding a bike and possibly fall in love with it from there—not feel pressured to progress to the next level. You’re teaching someone how to ride, not molding a new cyclist in your own image.  Just enjoy the lesson for what it is: the chance to pass on a new skill and spend a little time together on bikes. Don’t Forget that it should be fun! Fran Polito Getty Images It’s easy to get frustrated when someone just isn’t picking up the valuable lessons you’re putting down, and make a quick foray into drill-sergeant territory. But being patient, upbeat, and making the process seem silly and fun can go a long way toward putting a brand-new bike rider at ease. Learning to ride bikes shouldn’t feel like a job: It should feel like a blast, and it should always come with important motivational rewards like ice cream. In fact, depending on where you live, you can always make that your first major goal: ending the first big ride at the ice cream shop. Best Beginner Bikes Gallery Best Kid's Bike Spawn Yoji 16" spawncycles.com $415.00 Buy Now A totally capable kid’s bike with dirt-worthy tires. Women's Road Bike Liv Avail 1 liv-cycling.com $86.00 Buy Now A fast women’s road bike that’s comfortable enough to ride for hours. Best E-Bike Aventon Pace 350 aventon.com $1,099.00 Buy Now A throttle-equipped bike with electric pedal assistance. Best Mountain Bike Rocky Mountain Growler 20 bikes.com $999.00 Buy Now An affordable frame and components package that rides above it’s price range. Best Hybrid Bike Marin Presidio 1 marinbikes.com $499.00 Buy Now A sturdy commuter to get you where you’re going lickety-split. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io