Title: 10 of the Best Rail Trails in the U.S.

Text: Just about every cyclist can appreciate a good rail trail. The terrain is usually tame, there are no cars to contend with, and they’re a great introduction to longer rides—like centuries. Here, we’ve listed the top 10 of best rail trails you can find in America, and why each one belongs on your bucket list. Great Allegheny Passage Jon Dawnson/Flickr Location: Cumberland, Maryland, to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Length: 150 miles Learn more Why it’s great: When you connect the crushed limestone Allegheny Passage with the 184.5-mile C&O; Canal Towpath in Cumberland, you can ride all the way from Pittsburgh to D.C. without having to worry about busy streets or traffic. It’s the perfect place to try your first week-long bike tour. Katy Trail State Park Ken Ratcliff/Flickr Location: Machens to Clinton, Missouri Length: 240 miles Learn more Why it’s great: The crushed limestone Katy Trail is one of the longest rail trails in the country, and runs nearly across the entire midsection of Missouri. It’s not only steeped in history—over half of its length follows Lewis and Clark’s path along the Missouri River—but it’s also a great place to explore Missouri wine country, with wineries easy to access from the trail. Supercharge your riding life and get exactly what you need with Bicycling All-Acces! 🚲 Washington & Old Dominion Railroad Regional Park Location: Shirlington to Purcellville, Virginia Length: 44.8 miles Learn more Why it’s great: This paved national park trail, also known as the W&OD; for short, gets a lot of use due to its easy access from D.C. It’s an excellent way for cyclists to safely commute from northern Virginia into the city. Silver Comet Trail and Chief Ladiga Trail Location: Smyrna, Georgia, to Anniston, Alabama Length: 95 miles Learn more Why it’s great: Starting in Georgia, just outside of Atlanta, cyclists can take on both trails together for nearly 100 miles of scenic riding through two states. It’s one of the longest paved trails in the country and connects more than a dozen towns along the way. Little Miami Scenic Trail Eric Fredericks/Flickr Location: Springfield to Newtown, Ohio Length: 78 miles Learn more Why it’s great: This paved trail connects to other Southwestern Ohio trails, like the Buckeye Trail, the North County National Scenic Trail, and the Ohio-to-Erie Trail, for plenty of continuous off-road riding.  Four Great Touring Bikes to Elevate Your Next Adventure Best Value 520 Disc 520 $1,679.99 SHOP NOW Blendr stem for cleanly mounting Bontrager lights and accessories. Timeless Style Marrakesh Drop Bar salsa $1,499.00 SHOP NOW Can be converted to a singlespeed. A Classic, Updated Disc Trucker surly $1,675.00 SHOP NOW Carry more gear with pack mounts on the fork. Best For Long Hauls AWOL Expert specialized $19.00 SHOP NOW Integrated lights powered by a Dynamo hub. Paul Bunyan State Trail Ken Ratcliff/Flickr Location: Brainerd to Bemidji, Minnesota Length: 115 miles Learn more Why it’s great: This paved trail is dotted with small towns and lots of places to stop for food and local hospitality. If you ride the whole trail, you’ll not only soak up some of the best scenery Minnesota has to offer, but you’ll pass 21 freshwater lakes along the way. Wabash Trace Nature Trail Location: Council Bluffs to Blanchard, Iowa Length: 63 miles Learn more Why it’s great: This crushed limestone trail through the scenic Loess hills of western Iowa hosts a number of bike events, like the Taco Ride and regular MTB and road rides. There are a few parks along the route that offer free camping for bike tourists, but there is a minimal fee to ride the trail, which helps offset maintenance. Greenbrier River Trail Mark Levisay/Flickr Location: Cass to Caldwell, West Virginia Length: 78 miles Learn more Why it’s great: All the lush, green magic of the West Virginia outdoors comes into focus along this packed crushed stone trail down the Greenbrier River. Trail of the Coeur d’Alenes Robert Ashworth/Flickr Location: Mullan to Plummer, Idaho Length: 73 miles Learn more Why it’s great: This mixed asphalt and gravel trail takes cyclists across the state from near Washington to Montana border through the historic Silver Valley. The trail offers breathtaking views of the valley and Coeur d’Alene Lake and is operated as a partnership between the Coeur d’Alene tribe and the Idaho Department of Parks and Recreation. George S. Mickelson Trail Ken Ratcliff/Flickr Location: Deadwood to Edgemont, South Dakota Length: 114 miles Learn more Why it’s great: Named for its most ardent advocate, a former South Dakota governor, the George S. Mickelson trail passes through national forest for nearly its entire run. With views of the best of the Black Hills, this extensive crushed stone and dirt path crosses nearly 100 converted railroad bridges and four tunnels. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io