Title: How to Bike Commute Through Winter

Text: If you treat winter as your cycling offseason, you just might be missing out on some of the best months to ride. Sure, daylight is brief, the air is brisk, and the streets look like they might be better navigated by Zamboni, but consider the simple joys of the season with a winter bike commute if you have to head into work. The satisfaction of triumphing over the elements. The freedom of having the bike lane nearly to yourself. Yes, winter becomes primetime for car commuting, but getting out on your bike in the midst of the current pandemic may keep you mentally and physically healthy. We get some pretty snowy winters here in Pennsylvania, but nothing like what our cyclist friends face up North. Jana Velo lives in South Minneapolis and commutes 6 to 50 miles daily year-round—often towing her daughter in a weatherproof bike trailer. Here’s what she recommends you need to get started and stay stoked all season long. Find What Works for You “Finding the perfect winter set-up takes a while, because you first have to know yourself,” Velo says. “Do you run hot or cold? Where do you overheat or go numb? You will go through a trial and adjustment period based on the clothing and bike set-up you select—sometimes multiple times a day.”  Velo says there are two big misconceptions about winter riding—one, that you’ll freeze your butt off (“Actually, you’ll probably overheat!” she says), and two, you need a bunch of expensive gear and a fat bike to survive the roads. You don’t—you just need a few basics and a little time spent on trial and error. When investing in gear, Velo says, focus on your colder parts—likely your hands and toes. Thick mittens are a must if your hands run cold; gloves will work if your hands run warm. Keep your feet dry and warm with wool socks and dependable boots, whether cycling-specific or just your favorite warm pair. Velo recommends riding in the latter—and using plastic flat pedals, so the cold doesn't transfer to your foot. Winter Gloves Grid Editor’s Choice Showers Pass Waterproof Crosspoint $45.00 Buy Now Breathable, lightweight, waterproof knit gloves Good for Mountain Biking Craft Siberian Split Finger $62.00 Buy Now Our favorite lobster-style glove Low bulk, high warmth Assos Assosoires Ultraz Assos competitivecyclist.com $125.00 SHOP NOW Long cuffs seal in warmth Best for Fast Road Rides Endura Windchill Endura amazon.com $47.50 Buy Now Windproof back, breathable palm Best Lightweight Fox Racing Ranger Fox Racing amazon.com Buy Now Sweat-wicking gloves for MTBers Layer It Up You should always dress in layers. For Velo, this means wearing a merino base layer on top, a softshell jacket and winter bike tights—both of which have windproofing only in front, so the back acts as a vent. She also says she wears multiple layers of thin merino socks, and mittens (not gloves) that have multiple wool inserts, so you can adjust to temps. Having a windproof and moisture-resistant jacket is a necessity for wet days. “But the best clothing and gear is the one that works for you, so take any advice with a grain of salt and go with what you prefer,” she says. Best in the Rain Gore Wear C5 Gore-Tex Shakedry backcountry.com $349.95 Buy Now The best cold-weather, lightweight jacket we’ve tested. Best MTB Jacket Flylow Davis Jacket backcountry.com $93.71 Buy Now Roomy and breathable with a hood that fits under a helmet. Best Medium Weight Giordana FR-C Pro Lyte competitivecyclist.com $187.46 Buy Now Keeps you insulated on chilly morning rides. Best High-Viz Women's HyprViz Deflect Wind Vest specialized specialized.com $110.00 SHOP NOW Throw it over anything to be extra eye-catching. Best Casual Pearl Izumi Versa Softshell Hoodie competitivecyclist.com $131.25 Buy Now A bike jacket that doesn’t scream “bike jacket.” Get the Right Gear Fenders will make a huge difference on sloppy days, even if you just add a clip-on rear fender to keep your back dry. Wider, knobbier tires aren’t necessarily a must—though they might make you feel more secure on the ice. She recommends riding with one studded tire for added traction if you’re having trouble on the snow. Wear more reflective clothing and keep a set of lights charged so you’re always ready to ride as the daylight gets shorter and visibility becomes more of an issue. Make sure to wear a thin, windproof hat beneath your helmet made of wool or synthetic fibers, and carry a bandana for a runny nose or leaky eyes. Neckwarmers and face warmers are useful additions when the temperature plunges—Velo recommends making your own from old wool thrift shop sweaters. 4 Great Cold-Weather Cycling Caps Castelli Difesa 2 Cap competitivecyclist.com $49.95 Buy Now Full-coverage materials: Gore Windstopper on top, Thermoflex on the ear flaps. Giro Merino Winter Cap amazon.com $44.95 SHOP NOW Wool keeps your head warm and stink-free, the X-Static liner wicks sweat. Louis Garneau Winter Cap competitivecyclist.com $29.95 Buy Now The extra-long, thermal-lined ear band extends low to keep the chill off your neck. Sportful Fiandre NoRain Cap competitivecyclist.com $48.00 SHOP NOW This minimalist cap has no ear flaps, but its large brim is ideal for rainy days. Stay Chill (Metaphorically) If you find yourself in rough conditions, don’t panic! “On ice or in snow, you want to have loose hip and elbow joints and try to flow, rather than stiffening up,” Velo says. “If you feel yourself starting to fishtail or slip, try not to overcorrect. This takes some self-reminding before it becomes second-nature.” And if you’re struggling to stay motivated, just think of the alternative—you could be stuck indoors all day or cooped up in traffic. Not Velo, who started cycling every day 10 years ago when she had a 28-mile round trip commute. Take a page from her winter warrior book: “I love winter most of the time, and I much prefer fresh air and the rush of ‘I did it!’ than riding on a stuffy bus or driving,” she says. “It’s always exciting to see another cyclist on the road and give a low-five, a whoop or a grin.” This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io