Title: This Is the E-Bike Oprah Just Put on Her Insanely Popular Gift List

Text: Price: $1,850 Available: Order now for December shipping Buy Now Every holiday season, Oprah continues her tradition of giving by gracing her readers with a curated list of unique and meaningful gifts. Her annual list, called Favorite Things, has one guideline: If she doesn’t like something enough to want one for herself, it doesn’t make the cut.  This year, among the 107 gifts she chose to include, a Dutch-style step-through e-bike from Story Bikes earned a spot. Considering this catalog of goodies often includes things in the “I love that, but OMG the price!” range—hello fingerless gloves for $144—a 39-pound (claimed), aluminum, 7-speed e-bike with disc brakes for $1,850 is a pretty amazing deal. Courtesy Story Electric Bike Step-Through Story Bicycles amazon.com Buy Now This classic-looking cruiser, powered by a 350Wh rear-hub motor, has six levels of pedal assist, an LCD on-board computer, a claimed range of up to 45 miles, a max assisted speed of 20mph, and 700x35mm Kenda tires. As is everything on Oprah’s 2018 Favorite Things list, the Story Bikes Step-Through is a pretty package, too—integrated rear rack, leather saddle and grips, and colors that include white, matte black, and green. And the frame, which comes in one size (52cm), has an integrated USB port to charge your phone while you ride. The Gift That Really Does Keep on Giving For every Story electric bike sold (the brand also makes a road model for $1,895 and a step-over commuter for $1,850), one Buffalo bike gets donated. (If you’re not familiar, Buffalo bikes are designed, tested, and assembled in Africa and, with the help of World Bicycle Relief, donated to entrepreneurs, health care workers, farmers, and students to increase mobility and productivity, and improve their livelihood.) We just hope Story has a warehouse full of bikes to sell. Because given the popularity of Oprah’s gift list, this one could sell out soon. jennifer sherry Jen is the associate test director for Bicycling and Runner’s World. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io