Title: The 2018 Fatback Corvus FLT Lets You Bike Comfortably in the Snow

Text: Last winter, Bicycling's own Selene Yeager went on some epic snow adventures while testing the Fatback Corvus fat bike. So we are excited to hear of new updates as the Alaska-based company launches the 2018 Corvus FLT. Fatback says its engineers "put the Corvus on a diet of high-modulus carbon fiber" to shed nearly half a pound from the bike. The result is a refined, high-performance build with a stiffer bottom bracket and head tube. RELATED: Snow-Sport Company Rossignol Expands With Its Upcoming Mountain Bike Line The geometry is based on the original Corvus, with a front wheel that's closer to the rider than on an enduro bike. This allows you to put enough weight on the wheel to keep it secure in all conditions and avoid any understeering. Fatback wants to give riders the confidence to take on snowy conditions, and with a 5" max tire size you should be able to throw a lot at this bike. The company recommends using 26"X fat or 29" plus tires to get the most out of your ride. RELATED: Fat Bikes Go Beyond the Snow Plan to go riding in the snow this winter? Learn how to prepare for the cold weather: Even as Fatback cut weight, it didn't sacrifice the bike's three bottle mounts, rack mounts, and anything-cage mounts on the fork. (Take your training to the next level this winter with Bicycling's Maximum Overload for Cyclists.) Petite riders will appreciate the 14-inch build. (For taller riders, the bike does come in sizes up to 22 inches.) The Corvus FLT will be available mid-October in red and black or solid black color options. It starts at $3,699. Katie Fogel Social Media Editor Katie was out riding one day when she hopped onto a group ride of Bicycling’s editors and the rest was history, and now takes care of all things social media for Runners World and Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io