Title: Check Out What These Cyclists Packed for a Long-Distance Bike Trip

Text: Since 2012, I’ve been part of a global nonprofit community for cyclists called Warmshowers. People from all over the world sign up to offer free lodging and hospitality for folks who are traveling by bike. I learned about this group when I did my first long journey on a bicycle, from Playa del Carmen in Mexico where I live to Tikal, Guatemala—18 days and 1,400km. After that ride, I started opening my home to cyclists to learn more about long-distance bicycle touring. After hosting more than 100 cyclists, and having three amazing long-distance bicycle experiences myself, I realized there are so many different ways that people set up their bicycles and gear for touring. The photographer and the gear he uses to shoot his portraits. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara Using my photography, I wanted to show the different ways cyclists travel, what they carry, what is important for them and, most of all, I wanted to demonstrate how anyone can go places on a bicycle. I started this photo project in February 2019. As a graphic designer and photographer, I liked how the grid format displays all the items in an organized way. I use a DSLR Nikon D750 with a 24-70 2.8 lens and two remote flashes. So far, I have photographed 22 participants. Here are 11 of them. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara José Luis Osornio Ramírez 29 | San Luis Potosí, Mexico | Rides a seven-speed urban bike I got the idea to ride Mexico end to end unsupported when I was on a ride in early 2019 and my gear cassette broke. It was Sunday afternoon and there were no bike shops to save me. I had to go home pushing myself on a skateboard. My holidays were approaching, I had money saved, and the support of my family. Four weeks later, I got off the plane in Tijuana. I did not believe it. It seemed absurd and impossible. What am I going to do now? I wondered. I will pedal until I become sand that dries between the toes of Mexico. In all the forums I read, the same advice was repeated: Travel light. However, I decided to travel heavy because I wanted to strengthen my legs. Everything was meticulously selected. I paid close attention to covering my skin. In order not to get sunburned, I wore two pants, clothes with UV50 protection, gloves, and glasses for hot days on the beach. Though I had never used saddlebags, they became a wonderful ally. My action camera was always at hand even though I didn’t use it very often. What fascinated me the most to use was the drone. When you reach the end of a road, the drone takes you further. I made it 5,000km from Tijuana to Playa del Carmen in four months. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara Abril Georgina Morales Rodríguez and Maku 40 | Oaxaca, Mexico | Rides a Giant Liv Tempt 29 V Traveling with my dog, Maku, has created a strong bond between us. It has been full of adventures that we have enjoyed and overcome together with patience, perseverance, and love. We started from Oaxaca, Mexico, in June 2018, and have traveled 2,500km so far. Our final goal is to reach Africa. As a woman traveling without the company of a man in this macho world, sometimes it can become the worst experience when unknown men see you as a sexual object and believe they have the right not only to comment on your body, but to decide what to do with it. Fortunately, Maku and my strength—not physical but mental—have saved me in the most difficult situations. I’ve learned that I must never let my guard down. I carry a photograph of me from when I learned to walk. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara Two very useful items for me as a woman are my female standing urinal device and my menstrual cup. I also carry a children’s book, Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls, a green handkerchief in favor of women’s right to decide on our bodies, a photograph of me from when I learned to walk, and three photos of infants that I had in my charge while I lived 13 years in Africa. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara Giuseppe Gemelli 41 | Genoa, Italy | Rides a Surly Disc Trucker I was not a cyclist before. I had a time with a little depression. I separated from my ex-wife, and this saddened me. Searching the internet, I found that there were people who traveled the world by bicycle. I found it incredible. So I bought a bicycle, and two months later I was at the top of the world in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, with the dream of reaching the bottom of the world in Ushuaia, Argentina. At first I didn’t know anything about a bicycle. Now after 18,000km I can say that the bicycle has blown my mind. It has been a great experience. Incredible. At first, I suffered quite a bit, especially my butt and my muscles. I was also afraid to sleep alone in Alaska with bears and other animals. Little by little I got used to it. The bicycle has blown my mind. It has been a great experience. Incredible. Each day was incredible, sometimes pure happiness and others crying like a child. This is what the bicycle gives you. I really liked the ease of moving from one place to another without paying for gas or insurance. Or thinking about where to sleep. So many good people, they help you, they invite you to their home. The Agata shirt is important because of a family bond. Agata is my niece; I take a photo with her shirt in places that are significant to me. I send them to my sister; they are making a collection. A very important thing that I care for is the bicycle itself. It has all my things and takes me everywhere. I try to keep her well and take care of her as best as possible as if she were my girlfriend. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara The Delgorgue Family Jacques (43), Pauline (42), Élise (15), Octave (13), Solène (10), Charlotte (10) Marseille, France | Ride a vsf fahrradmanufaktur T-700 (2), Vermont 21-speed (2), Cube 21-speed (2)  In August 2019, we cycled through the Americas for seven months with our four kids. We call ourselves 6 à Vélo (6 by Bike). We rode almost 6,000km through Canada, USA, Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Cuba, and Chile. Through this adventure we discovered our children’s strengths and weaknesses, and they discovered who their parents really are. We met a lot of amazing people through Warmshowers, but also on the road, especially in Cuba. Many were living in poverty, but they were extremely generous. We want to model this generosity in our daily life. Cycling is slow and cycling is tough, but this way of travel is so nourishing. We had only basic and necessary equipment. To sleep: two tents, warm sleeping bags, and mattresses. To cook: one multifuel stove, two pans, one saucepan, six plates. To dress (each): three T-shirts, one long-sleeve T-shirt, two cycling shorts, one long cycling pant, one pair of trousers, rain- and cold-weather gear. We carried a drone, a GoPro, an iPad, and a phone to take pictures and make our film and blogs. Basically that’s it, plus medicines and spare parts for the bikes. The children also carried their school books and notebooks in their panniers. Cycling is slow and cycling is tough, but this way of travel is so nourishing. Now we can’t imagine traveling any other way. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara Yì Qīng Xú 33 | Zhongshan, China | Rides a Marin city bike I had been working in Puerto Morelos, Mexico, and a coworker said that he just finished a bicycle trip from Chiapas, which is a little more than 1,000km away. I was interested in going to Oaxaca, which is next to Chiapas, and traveling by bike seemed like an excellent option. So I bought a bike. I had fears and doubts but wanted to prove to myself that I could do it. As a beginner, I struggled to keep my stuff from falling apart, namely my rack and pannier bags. After getting those in order, I was happy with just the bare minimum. If I had to name one essential thing that made me happy, it would be my bivy tent. I had to use it twice when I couldn’t find accommodation; it kept a barrier between me and some angry dogs at a park! As for the actual traveling part, I took pleasure from how simplified the days became. No complicated thoughts and a million things to do, only keeping those wheels spinning, satisfying that hunger and thirst with the simplest food, and finding shelter. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. After a 120km day with not a cloud covering the sun, drinking a chilled cup of pozol with jalapeño was heavenly. I loved just living the simplicity and feeling the ups and downs of my emotions each day. But the greatest gift was becoming a part of a Mexican family by fate. I only planned to stay one or two nights, but ended up living and working the land and doing everything with them for a month. In the end I gave them my bike because I think they need it more than I do. Javier Reséndiz Fernández de Lara Detlev Swoboda 66 | Perth, Australia | Rides a 25-year-old Batavus Dasher From 2016 to late 2019, my bicycle took me south from Brazil to Ushuaia, Argentina, then north to Alaska and Canada, covering 55,000km. My way of traveling includes a bit of comfort. And rather than speeding through the wonderful and interesting countries, I take my time. I long for the freedom and solitude you can only achieve on the road. Covering alpine to tropical climates, I need a good tent and two different sleeping bags. Another essential item is my Trangia stove which works with alcohol and is basically maintenance-free. At the moment I’m waiting out the end of the travel restrictions so I can cycle from Germany to Australia. In my life, I have cycled approximately 115,000km around the world in all the different continents, starting my first journey in 1971, from Germany to Spain and back. Ever since then, I long for the freedom and solitude you can only achieve when you’re on the road exercising in the fresh air, experiencing foreign countries and cultures, and making new friends.