Title: Fat Bike Nationals

Text: On Valentine’s Day, as many couples are gazing into each other’s eyes over a candlelit dinner, over 70 people will be taking to the trails of Ogden, Utah, for the United States’ first-ever Fat Bike National Championships. Among those competitors will be Steve Johnson, CEO of USA Cycling, and his wife Kristine. The couple bought Borealis Echos as Christmas presents for each other, and started training for the event, which falls on Valentines Day (and the 21st anniversary of their engagement). Steve and Kristine—a former tennis coaching professional—met through cycling. Steve was a speaker at the World Senior Games, while Kris attended as a sponsor with Wilson Sporting Goods. Now the couple owns a fleet of bikes, including tandems, mountain bikes, and more. “Cycling brings such blessings to a marriage—adventure, passion, friends, and experiences. It builds a lifetime of happiness,” Kristine says. Living in snowy Colorado, fat bikes seemed like an obvious choice for the duo. The Johnsons live close to a trailhead where they ride mountain bikes in late summer, but they found that the trails were only fit for cross-country skis in the winter. “They get pretty beat up by hikers and snowshoers,” Steve said. “So we thought fat bikes might be an excellent way to enjoy the trails in the winter.” Steve says his only goal at the National Championships is to have fun, but Kristine, a two-time Masters National Champion, may have better chances at bringing home a jersey. Think a Fat Bike National Championship is weird? Steve doesn’t. “It started out as a niche a decade ago, primarily in Alaska and the northern US, and it’s continued to grow and gain traction. Now you have really high-end manufacturers getting involved in the sport. Unit sales are increasing, and inventory sells out pretty much across the board. From our perspective, it’s a great opportunity to broaden the scope of bicycling activities and provide an opportunity for a championship in a really fun discipline.” So next Valentine's Day, plan your presents wisely. If you give your sweetheart a fat bike, you both could end up at Fat Bike Nationals next spring! This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io