Title: Saint Augustine's Cycling Team Raffle

Text: UPDATE: Canyon Bicycles helped to raise more than $40,000 for the St. Augustine’s University cycling team through the raffle for a custom Canyon Ultimate CF SLX bike, per a press release. There’s a new bike raffle underway, and for a $20 donation you’ll get the chance to win a custom Canyon Ultimate CF SLX road bike. All of the proceeds will go towards the Saint Augustine’s University (SAU) cycling team. Giphy With Bicycling All Access, we’ll help you become the best rider you can be JOIN US! The university, located in Raleigh, North Carolina, made history last spring when it became the first Historically Black College or University (HBCU) in the U.S. to establish a cycling team. Since then, the SAU team has gone on to garner some big-name sponsorships including Canyon, which donated the bike to help raise funds for the team. The raffle closes on February 28, and a winner will be announced on March 1. SAU’s raffle entry page states you can buy as many $20 tickets as you’d like, in order to better your odds. (The max entries allowed through the submission form is only 10, though, so you’ll need to fill it out again if you’d like to buy more.) Specifically, the raffle winner will get one of SAU’s custom-painted team bikes (in his or her size, of course). The bike will feature a quote along the seatstay by Marshall “Major” Taylor, the first Black cyclist to win a world championship, in sprinting in 1899: “In a word I was a pioneer, and therefore had to blaze my own trail.” The bike being raffled also features the same carbon frame used by WorldTour team Movistar, including pro cyclist Nairo Quintana during the 2019 Tour de France—who rode the bike to his Stage 18 victory up the punishing Col du Galibier climb. 4 of the Best Canyon Bikes You Can Buy Right Now Best Beginner Bike Endurace AL Disc 7.0 $1,899.00 Buy Now Budget friendly and comfortable for hours. Best Mountain Bike Lux CF SL 8.0 $4,899.00 Buy Now Own the trails on this XC race bike. Best Gravel Bike Grail CF SL 8 $3,199.00 Buy Now Won’t slow down when the pavement ends. Best Road Bike Aeroad CF SL 8 Disc $4,399.00 Buy Now A fast and furious road racer. Bicycling reviewed the Ultimate back when it first launched in 2018, and we think it’s a great all-rounder. It’s perfect for racing, if that’s your thing, but it’ll also suit the needs of many riders. You can read more about it here. The SAU cycling team also recently launched a series of five videos documenting their story, called Chasing History, sponsored by Canyon and Bicycling. Check out the second episode below. Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io