Title: Bible of Bike Tests: Ibis Mojo Deore XT

Text: Of all the bikes we tested in Marin, the Ibis Mojo was the one that had us the most confused. It wasn’t necessarily because of the short 130-millimeter-rear/140-millimeter-front travel or the 27.5-inch wheels. Or maybe it was the wheels, but it was their width, not their diameter that got us scratching our heads. It’s impossible not to be drawn directly to the 35-millimeter-wide IBIS S35 rims with the 2.6-inch Schwalbe Hans Dampf and Nobby Nic tires. Didn’t plus-size tires die an embarrassingly sudden death? Perhaps ‘death’ is an exaggeration; 2.6-inch tires have carried on some of that dreaded plus-sized squirm. They still retain many of the positive attributes of regular-width tires, but a spec like that certainly doesn’t scream “let’s shred.” Instead, you end up feeling like you’re just floating around in the ocean on a foam surfboard—just a passenger, not able to carve or cut or do anything cool. But there’s hope. Ibis does offer a number of wheel options, and personally I would look at a more conservative rim and tire width to get the most out of this incredible platform. Enough about the tires, though. This V5 DW-link is really something special. It has a deceptively bottomless feel for a 130-millimeter-travel bike. Plenty of support, but somehow doesn’t seem to generate a harsh ramp up at the end of the stroke that you might experience on other linkage setups praised with that word ‘support.’ It really tricks you into thinking this bike has more travel than it actually does. And on the climbs … just wow. There’s seemingly no square-edge hang-ups on technical sections. A seat angle of 76.6 puts the rider in a powerful position, and all that power is going straight to the pedals, keeping you moving forward regardless of line choice. That square-edge performance is all there on the downs as well. I didn’t need to carefully pick my lines like I thought I’d have to. There’s a lot more plow-ability than I expected. The 65.4-headtube angle is just relaxed enough to give you confidence on the downs without the bike feeling like it’s wandering on the way back up.