Title: How to Prevent and Treat Scarring From a Crash

Text: Crashes happen. You can do your best to prevent going down, but sometimes, it’s unavoidable. In those cases, how you treat road rash—your wounds, especiallycan mean the difference between a quick and safe recovery or prolonged scabbing and scarring. Here are four key steps to follow. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. 1. Wash the Wound Properly Aaron Goldberg, an emergency medicine physician who has served as a team doctor for cycling teams, says the first thing you should do to treat road rash is clean your wound with water, either from a clean bottle or nearby source. Goldberg advises treating really dirty wounds with a cleanser such as as soon as possible. Do not use peroxide, and don’t scrub hard. “If you can see fat globules or there is a deep cut, you probably need to get stitches; stop and go to the ER,” Goldberg says. Get All Access to Bicycling.com! 2. Dress the Wound For minor road rash treatment, Goldberg recommends applying a thick layer of antibiotic ointment like Neosporin, followed by a non-stick dressing and a length of gauze (he likes the web-like ) to secure the dressing. Change it daily until healed. For medium-depth wounds, Goldberg uses a thin layer of antibiotic ointment in the central wound area. Then apply a clear dressing like Tegaderm and cover it with gauze to secure it. You can keep the bandage in place for several days. When you change it, gently clean the wound.  For deeper wounds, Goldberg says to simply apply a leak-proof Duoderm bandage directly on the wound and seal the edges as best you can. Then, secure it with Spandage. The dressing will turn to a gel underneath and can be left in place for a week or so. “If it leaks after a few days, make sure to catch the drainage with gauze so it doesn’t mess up your clothes,” Goldberg says. 3. Monitor the Healing As your wound heals, it should become less painful every day. Any increases in pain, swelling, redness, or smelly discharge could be a sign of infection. “You might need antibiotics and dressing changes, so make sure you are seen by a doctor,” Goldberg says. 4 Picks for Healing Road Rash Skintegrity Wound Cleanser Medline $12.98 Buy Now Neosporin Antibiotic Pain-Relieving, Anti-Itch, & Scar Appearance Minimizer First Aid Ointment with Neomycin, Bacitracin, Pramoxine HCl & Polymyxin B, Minor Cuts, Scrapes & Burns, 1 oz Neosporin amazon.com $11.07 $9.47 (14% off) SHOP NOW Transparent Dressing (Pack of 10) Tegaderm $36.95 $14.99 (59% off) Buy Now Spandage (25 Yards) Medi-Tech International $14.58 4. Reduce Scarring Whenever you tear your skin, you’re at risk of a scar. To minimize the risk, massage your wound regularly with a moisturizer once it heals. Roz McGinty, a triathlete and plastic-surgery nurse specialist recommends doing it twice a day for a few minutes each time. “The massage helps to break down the scar tissue and the moisturizer hydrates the new skin,” she says. McGinty also suggests applying silicone cream, gel, or tape for two to four months after an injury. “It is particularly effective for dark, red, or raised scars,” she says. If you want to make your scars less noticeable, try avoiding the sun—UV rays increase pigmentation and can make your scar appear worse. “Ideally, this needs to be strict for 12 to 18 months post injury,” McGinty says. That’s a big ask for cyclists, who would rather be out riding. Given that choice, it’s not surprising that so many of us choose to wear our road rash scars as badges of honor. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io