Title: General Motors Unveils E-Bike Company, Begins Selling in Europe

Text: General Motors launched a new e-bike brand, ARĪV, on Thursday. ARĪV will offer two bikes—the Meld, a compact e-bike, and the Merge, a folding e-bike—for sale at $3,160 and $3,835, respectively. Initial sales will be available in Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands. When General Motors announced last fall that it would release a pair of electric-assist bikes, details were scarce. But on Thursday, the automobile giant unveiled more about its plans to break into the rapidly growing e-bike market. GM’s electric bike brand, called ARĪV, launched on Thursday and will begin selling bikes in Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands. Preorders are now available via Bike Exchange and will start shipping in the spring. The ARĪV line currently consists of one compact e-bike, the Meld, and one folding e-bike, the Merge. Both use the same mid-motor setup with an integrated battery and have a compact design that allows for easy transit and convenient storage. The Merge can still be rolled on its wheels when folded. Both bikes can connect via Bluetooth with the ARĪV app, which displays your speed, distance, battery level, motor assist level, and distance traveled on your phone screen. Each bike comes equipped with a smartphone handlebar mount with an integrated USB port that charges your phone on the go. The Merge folding e-bike GM From what we could tell from the launch photos, the bikes have 16x1 3/8-inch wheels, chain drive, an internally geared hub, and hydraulic disc brakes. They’re rounded out by full-coverage fenders, reflective-sidewall tires, ergonomic grips, a kickstand, and a bell. The company says the sleek, single-size aluminum frame fits riders between 5 feet and 6 feet tall. The single-speed Meld weighs 43 pounds, while the Merge comes with a Shimano Alfine eight-speed shift system and weighs about 48.5 pounds. The Meld costs 2,800 euro (about $3,160) and the Merge 3,400 euro ($3,835). GM did not provide any info on when the line will be available in the U.S. Amazing E-Bikes for Everyone Everyday Commuter Benno eJoy 9 Carries 88 pounds on the rear rack; lasts 80 miles. $3,400 Full Review Singletrack Ripper Specialized Turbo Levo All the fun of a mountain bike—with a boost. $5,600 Full Review Midtail Errand Runner Felt Tote’m Has everything you need to ditch your car. $4,000 Full Review Passengers Welcome Riese & Müller Load Touring Two batteries + 220-pound capacity = fun $7,755 Full Review The ARĪV motor was designed and built by GM exclusively, drawing heavily from the company’s experience with electric vehicles. It enables speeds up to 25 kph (about 15.5 mph) with four levels of pedal-assisted power, as well as a throttle-engaged walk mode to help users easily move the hefty bike on foot. The battery charges from empty to full in roughly 3.5 hours and lasts about 40 miles on a single charge (on the lowest assist setting, we assume). Both bikes also come with integrated, rechargeable LED head- and taillights and hydraulic brakes to increase stopping power. Riley Missel Test Editor Test editor Riley Missel is an experienced road racer, mountain biker, and a national champion on the track who has been at Bicycling since 2017. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io