Title: Calories Burned Calculator

Text: There are lots of activity trackers out there these days, and they can measure everything from heart rate to power output to whether or not you’re getting sick. But if you’re someone who just likes to keep things simple, this more basic calculator will give you a ballpark idea of how many calories you burned on your last ride. This content is imported from Third party. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. And to help you get the most out of your training, we’ve gathered some expert resources and answers to five of the most common calorie questions below. Join Bicycling Now for $40/Year! What Is a Calorie? In simplest terms, a calorie is a unit of energy. Our bodies use calories for every process, from keeping our hearts beating to sprinting for that KOM. We get calories from the food we eat—there are nine calories in every gram of fat, and four calories in every gram of protein and carbohydrate. Unused calories are stored in fat cells, which is the body’s way of conserving energy for when it needs it, but these calories can be burned through exercise.  Why Should I Watch My Calorie Intake? Brian Barnhart The reality is that too few of us really know how many calories we’re eating—and when we make an estimate we’re often way off. The average female cyclist burns between 2,000 and 2,400 calories a day, while her male counterparts burn between 2,200 and 2,700. This might sound like a lot, but between sugar in our coffee, dressing on our salads, and the occasional beer and cheese-fry binge, it’s easier to go over than you might think. Excess calories can result in excess weight, which can contribute to everything from heart disease to insulin resistance to decreased cognitive function, so it’s worth exercising some moderation if you notice that you’re going over. Related video: 13 Ways to Lose Weight With Your Bike  But that doesn’t mean you have to give up everything—watching calories is “all about making swaps and developing habits that are sustainable for the long-term rather than just depriving yourself,” says Charles Platkin, Ph.D., M.P.H., distinguished lecturer at Hunter College and City University of New York School of Public Health. “A simple swap that cuts 500 calories has a multiplier effect: If it’s something you eat three or four times a week, you cut at least 1,500 calories.” How Can I Use the Calorie Calculator to Lose Weight? On the surface, the equation seems simple: work out more, eat less, and you’ll lose weight. And while that basic principle is indeed true, it’s also important to consider the source of the calories you’re getting. The three macronutrients (fat, carbohydrate, and protein) all have different roles to play in our metabolism, and you need certain ratios of each depending on your activity level. Remember: Fat is not necessarily the enemy. In fact, in a 2012 study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, researchers found that when dieters followed a low-fat diet for four weeks, their metabolism took a dramatic nose dive, leaving them burning 300 fewer calories—the amount burned during a 30-minute interval workout—a day. Counting calories to lose weight works best if you focus on getting quality, balanced meals first—and using calories as a guideline for portion control. [Want to fly up hills? gives you the workouts and mental strategies to conquer your nearest peak.] Can I Still Eat Good Food While Watching Calories? Brian Barnhart Yes, you can still enjoy amazing, satisfying, nutritional food while watching your calories and losing weight. Adding whole grains, fruits, and vegetables into your meals is a great way to eliminate added sugars, fats, and calories—and since those foods often have more fiber than their more processed counterparts, you’ll also finish your meal feeling fuller. Watching your calories might even help you break out of a food rut to try new things. How Many Calories Do I Need? Everybody has a Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR), which is the minimum number of calories you need to keep your body running. For sedentary women this number is around 1,400 calories a day. For men it’s around 1,800. But the key word here is sedentary. Any added activity, from a walk around the block to a five-hour bike race, will increase your body’s caloric demand. And it’s not just while you’re working out—calories help you stay fueled before you exercise and when you need to recover afterwards. Your daily caloric needs will fluctuate depending on your size, activity level, and individual metabolism, but it’s a good idea to get a ballpark range to make sure you’re not over (or under) doing it. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io