Title: ​12 Game-Changing New E-Bikes for Every Type of Cyclist

Text: Booyah, E-bikes! That’s right. We said it. These 12 new pedal-assisted rides are so fun they should be called wheee-bikes! But they’re mad practical, too. Got a new cyclist in your life? Help them discover the joy of cycling with our Get Someone Riding Gift Pack! Opus Connect Opus The Connect has Dutch city-bike styling, integrated lights, hydraulic disc brakes, and a max assisted speed of 20 mph. A rack, panniers, and skirt guard make this STEPS-powered step-through great for commuting and city riding. $2,899—Mike Yozell RELATED: Cannondale’s Quick Neo Is the Honda Accord of E-Bikes Tern Vektron Tern This folding model with a Bosch power drive motor is an excellent choice for the storage-deprived. Max assisted speed is 20 mph, and the rear rack makes it robust enough to carry a few days’ worth of groceries. $3,400—Mike Yozell Bulls Lacuba Evo E8 Step-Thru Bulls A belt drive and an internally geared hub mean low maintenance for this rack- and fender-equipped commuter. The high-capacity battery hidden in the down tube powers a Brose motor with a claimed range of up to 120 miles on a single charge. $3,899—Mike Yozell Take a closer look at another one of our favorite e-bikes: Yuba Spicy Curry Bosch Yuba Passengers are no issue for this Bosch-powered, long-tail, e-cargo bike with options to add accessories such as kids’ seating. The aluminum bike has a Shimano Deore 10-speed drivetrain, Shimano hydraulic disc brakes, and a 20-inch rear wheel for a low, stable center of gravity.—Caitlin Giddings Buy it: $4,499, rei.com Benno Boost E Benno A Bicycling Editors’ Choice winner for 2017, the sporty Boost E is a Bosch-powered, mid-tail cargo bike with a range of up to 70 miles (30 in Turbo). With an aluminum frame, steel fork, Shimano Deore 10-speed drivetrain, and hydraulic disc brakes, it has all the utility you need. $4,299 (front tray costs extra)—Caitlin Giddings RELATED: The Riese & Müller Load Touring Could Replace Your Minivan Larry vs Harry EBullitt Larry vs Harry Completely customizable from the tires up, the EBullitt comes in multiple sizes, setups, and colors (there are nine to choose from). The Shimano STEPS drive unit offers pedal assist up to 15.5 mph and automatically downshifts at stops, so it’s easier to start pedaling again. $4,855 and up—Caitlin Giddings Karmic Koben S Karmic Hills are no match for the Koben S. With five levels of boost from a Bafang MAX motor and the ability to go 28 mph before the assist tops out, this alloy model will get you to your destination in a flash. And with fenders and a belt drive, you’ll get there looking as good as you did when you left. $2,799—Jennifer Sherry RELATED: You’ll Feel Like a Superhero on the Trek Super Commuter+ 8S Haibike XDURO Trekking S 5.0 Haibike This 11-speed utilitarian model is equipped with fenders, a sturdy rear rack, and Haibike’s own slick-looking eHeadlight. A Bosch-powered motor assists the rider up to 28 mph. The 27.5-inch Schwalbe tires and 60mm of front suspension take the edge off bumpy trips. $4,699—Jennifer Sherry Vintage Electric Cruz Vintage Electric Upgrade to Race Mode for $149, and the made-in-California Cruz goes from street legal to a speedy 36 mph max. Retro details include a and grips, sand-cast aluminum battery box, maple inlay on the frame, and a custom chrome-plated LED headlight. $4,995 and up—Jennifer Sherry Giant Full-E+ 1 Giant Giant’s 27.5-inch-wheeled e-mountain bike smashes through the rough with 140mm of Maestro suspension and a 140mm-travel Fox 34 fork. A Yamaha SyncDrive motor can put out 250 watts of power with a long-lasting 500Wh battery pack. $5,300—Ron Koch RELATED: Get to the Top Twice as Fast on the New Specialized Turbo Levo Focus Jarifa 27 Donna Focus This Bosch-powered 27.5-inch-wheeled hardtail comes with a women’s saddle and grips. Bosch’s Purion handlebar-mounted display lets the rider easily scroll through pedal-assist modes or operate the walk mode. $2,799—Ron Koch Cannondale Moterra Cannondale This 130mm-travel full-suspension e-mountain bike has 27.5 x 2.8-inch-wide tires and short chainstays thanks to the clearance offered by a 6mm-offset chainring paired with a 157mm-wide rear hub and angled Bosch motor mounting position. A rubber cover protects the battery, which is integrated on the bottom of the down tube for the lowest center of gravity and better handling. $5,500—Ron Koch This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io