Title: Learn to Ride a Bike as an Adult

Text: There’s a common misconception that if you didn’t learn to ride a bike as a kid, you’ve missed your chance. But Marilyn Northcotte has been teaching adults how to ride for decades through a program called Pedal Ready in Wellington, New Zealand. The vast majority of her students (some as old as 69!) have mastered the art of riding. After all, learning to ride a bike as an adult is no harder than learning as a kid as long as you take the same step-by-step approach to the process—and push grown-up fear and nerves out of the way. All you need is a bike and a safe, wide-open place to practice, like an empty parking lot or park. And if you have access to a bike and are looking to get out for some physically distanced riding around your neighborhood, now is as good a time as any to get back out for an easy ride. Follow these steps and you’ll to learn to ride a bike in no time: Set up your bike First make sure you can stand over your bike without the top tube pressing into you. (If you can’t, you’ll need to pick a smaller size. Remember, proper bike fit is important when possible.) Then lower the seat so you can sit on the saddle with your feet just resting on the ground. You should be able to reach the handlebars and brakes comfortably. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Practice getting on and off To mount the bike, lean it toward you while applying the brakes so it doesn’t roll or wobble. Apply the brakes again when getting off the bike. Get used to braking Braking is a crucial skill that Northcotte says will give you a lot of confidence starting out. Walk next to your bike and push it down the street while practicing pulling on the brakes to stop. Make sure you apply pressure evenly on both brakes. Best Beginner Bikes for Adults Women's Road Bike Liv Avail 1 Buy Now A fast women’s road bike that’s comfortable enough to ride for hours. Best E-Bike Aventon Pace 350 aventon.com $1,099.00 Buy Now A throttle-equipped bike with electric pedal assistance. Best Mountain Bike Rocky Mountain Growler 20 bikes.com $999.00 Buy Now An affordable frame and components package that rides above it’s price range. Best Hybrid Bike Marin Presidio 1 marinbikes.com $499.00 Buy Now A sturdy commuter to get you where you’re going lickety-split. Learn to glide Now you’re ready to start moving. Northcotte teaches the basic “balance method,” which involves scooting on the bike with your feet, to adults as well as children. “Scooting along helps them to learn the feeling of balancing on two wheels,” she says. “The aim is to push off and get both their feet off the ground for as long as they can. If they need to put one foot down to correct their balance, then they put both down and start again. Once they can glide along without touching their feet down to correct themselves, they are ready to begin pedaling.” Practice your glide until you can keep your feet up for three seconds.  Hone your balance and vision “Anything that involves balance is helpful and can be used as a point of reference,” Northcotte says. “For example, if you’ve ridden a scooter before with both feet on the platform, you should be able to balance on two wheels.” Look toward where you want to go, instead of focusing on obstacles to avoid. Keep your eyes up and always look ahead instead of down. It will help you maintain balance and follow your line of vision.  Get ready to pedal Once you can maintain balance while gliding and have mastered braking and keeping your vision steady, you’re ready to pedal. Start with one foot on the ground and the opposite foot on a pedal in the two o'clock position to give you some momentum when you push off. Then push down on the pedal and add your other foot as you move forward. You’ll notice the faster you pedal, the easier it is to maintain your balance. Practice pedaling circles around the park or parking lot. Once you develop confidence, get off the bike and move your seat up so that your feet reach the pedals with only a very slight bend. Practice navigating cones or obstacles until you get the hang of it. You’re riding a bike!  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io