Title: "The Long Way Around" Bike Film

Text: In his most recent film, The Long Way Around, outdoor photographer and filmmaker Chris Burkard journeyed inland from his coastal home in California to explore his “backyard,” the Sierra Nevada mountains. Giphy If you love cycling, then you’ll love Bicycling All Access JOIN US The film is part bikepacking adventure with friends—ultracyclist Lael Wilcox, visual journalist Rugile Kaladyte, and Specialized senior designer Erik Nohlin—and part ode to the great outdoors that lies beyond your doorstep. It aired January 14 and is free to watch on YouTube. Another goal of the film was to highlight the increasing devastation of California’s landscape wrought by wildfires every season. “The only way people are ever going to care about something is if they experience it,” Burkard told Bicycling. “A big part of that is through film and video. That’s always been kind of my calling card.” The group’s original plans for the trip changed last summer as wildfires ravaged the area. Finally, come mid-October, their window appeared. They opted to start in Three Rivers, California, the “gateway” to Kings Canyon National Park. Once they hit the end of the road, deep in the park, they loaded their bikes onto their packs and started hiking, heading in a roundabout way to Sequoia National Park. Though the wildfires had calmed enough to let them proceed, Burkard said the weather remained challenging—hot and “dry as a bone.” At one point they even passed through a smoky active burn area. Another challenge was being fully self-supported with no supply points due to the pandemic, a task rendered even harder considering they were also carrying their bikes over mountain passes. Rugile Kaladyte “We didn’t quite really know how hard it was going to be,” Burkard said. “We got through day one and didn’t bring enough food, didn’t bring enough water, [there was] no resupply.” Like with most bikepacking trips, he said, “there’s always something to learn and there’s always something to be humbled by.” But Burkard’s favorite moment from the trip? “It’s so silly,” he said. “It’s always pretty typical. It’s usually that moment when you’ve sort of been in the moment and you come back to civilization.” Tired and famished, the group emerged from the wilderness of Sequoia National Park and unexpectedly came across a small convenience store. The sight was a welcome one, and they gleefully loaded up on food and drink, “like kids in a candy store.” “You never really appreciate being there until you’re done,” Burkard said. Rugile Kaladyte Another fun highlight was getting record-setting ultra endurance cyclist Lael Wilcox to slow down to everyone else’s pace. Wilcox is accustomed to relentlessly laying down the miles, sleeping for only a few hours, then waking up and doing it all over again for hundreds, sometimes thousands of miles at a time. Though the film focuses specifically on the Sierra Nevadas, Burkard says the main premise of the film—of getting out and exploring by bike—is applicable anywhere. “We hope in some way to make people realize, if you have access to these areas in your backyard, the bike can be the best tool for exploration … to see what we can learn, to develop and cultivate a greater appreciation for these places in our backyard,” Burkard said. “I think that in turn allows you to care about these places more.” Four Great Touring Bikes to Elevate Your Next Adventure Best Value 520 Disc 520 $1,679.99 SHOP NOW Blendr stem for cleanly mounting Bontrager lights and accessories. Timeless Style Marrakesh Drop Bar salsa $1,499.00 SHOP NOW Can be converted to a singlespeed. A Classic, Updated Disc Trucker surly $1,675.00 SHOP NOW Carry more gear with pack mounts on the fork. Best For Long Hauls AWOL Expert specialized $19.00 SHOP NOW Integrated lights powered by a Dynamo hub. Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io