Title: Gravel Sportives Are Here, and They Might Be the Best Kind of Cycling Event

Text: It’s no secret that participation in road racing is on the decline. USA Cycling memberships have been trending flat to downward since 2012, and there are fewer pure road races on the calendar overall. It’s also no secret that in their wake, mass-start events like gran fondos and gravel races have thrived. Even so, the past few years have seen the continued growth of a new generation of organized ride. These events seem to meld the allure of both worlds: They offer the personal challenge and inclusive feel of gran fondos and charity rides, while appealing to more adventurous cyclists with far-flung destinations and a light element of competition. While many are gravel races—Grinduro, for instance, or the all-new SBT GRVL that sold out six days after its December launch—some also run purely on pavement, like Peter Stetina’s Sierra Prospect, which has been described as “a road rally-style gran fondo.” Perhaps no one ride takes this movement farther than the brand-new Roll Massif series, announced on Monday. Billing itself as the “New American Sportive,” Roll Massif features eight road, gravel, and mountain events throughout Colorado. While it includes big-name road rides like the Copper Triangle, Elephant Rock, and Tour of the Moon, the two gravel events are completely new: Wild Horse Gravel in De Beque, Colorado, on May 11, and Crooked Gravel in the ski town of Winter Park on August 10. This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This idea of a gravel sportive is what makes the series unique, according to Ben Delaney, Roll Massif’s head of communication. “There are a lot of great gravel races out there, from Land Run 100 to the Dirty Kanza, and those are fantastic events,” he said. “But the trend with those seems to be leaning toward sufferfests. And that’s not what we’re all about.” Instead, the road and gravel events incorporate timed segments, allowing riders to hammer some sections (if they want), then regroup and ride with friends after. “You can throttle yourself as much or as little as you like, but that’s not the entirety of the experience,” Delaney said. “You don’t have to race, but there are competitive elements tied into it.” The Grinduro series also employs this format. But Delaney says Roll Massif is the first to combine multiple disciplines (road, mountain, and gravel) into one sportive series. Even the mountain bike races, which include the renowned 12 Hours of Elephant Rock and a new 12-hour race in Winter Park, emphasize experience and participation. Most riders will be on three- to five-person teams, Delaney said, “so they have on and off times, too. There’s a time to go hard and a time to enjoy.” Roll Massif recon of the Copper Triangle course. Courtesy Roll Massif Of course, at the most popular gravel “races” like Dirty Kanza, the majority of participants are also there more for personal accomplishment rather than competition. But by not positioning Roll Massif as a race series at all, organizers hope to capture an even wider audience. “At a good Colorado road race, you get 500 people and it feels like a big thing,” Delaney said. “But Copper Triangle is 3,000 people; Elephant Rock is 6,000-7,000 people. For a lot of people, the word ‘race’ is an intimidating thing. [Yet] while Copper Triangle has never been marketed as a race, when we introduced time segments, a lot of people had interest.” That competitive element, and the ability to see where you compare to the fastest riders on the day, should also attract some of the more hardcore roadie crowd. “We’re not here to replace bike racing,” Delaney said. “But instead of doing your same old training loop 100 times, why not go to a national park and ride in a beautiful place with a few thousand people and have a big meal catered afterwards, with live music, and enjoy the day?” A piece of the Tour of the Moon course, outside of Grand Junction, Colorado. Courtesy Roll Massif [Want to fly up hills? Climb! gives you the workouts and mental strategies to conquer your nearest peak.] The aim is to attract a different crowd than traditional organized rides. Like Grinduro and SBT GRVL, Roll Massif has a sleek, outdoorsy brand and a highly visual marketing strategy. Instead of photos of massive crowds found on many charity ride sites, or more race-inspired imagery on fondo sites, the Roll Massif promo videos show small groups of fit-looking riders pedaling through vast, big-mountain scenery. They tuck into curvy descents and playfully attack one other. The backdrop evokes a sense of adventure, of getting way out there. It feels fun, authentic, and exciting. It feels, well, like a big awesome bike ride. Co-founders Chandler Smith and Scotty Olmsted each have 15 years of experience running events like the Copper Triangle, Haute Route Rockies, Ride the Rockies, and BikeMS. They hope that by packaging their new series with trusted stalwarts, Roll Massif will attract riders from all over the country to Colorado for a novel experience. In addition to traditional registration, they’ve also devised a packaged pricing system inspired by popular Colorado ski passes. With the Pedal Pass, you can drop in on any three or four Roll Massif events of your choosing. The Massif pass includes entry to seven of the eight events. But if you have to choose one, Delaney recommended either of the two gravel sportives. Based on his descriptions, my vote is for Wild Horse Gravel, which starts and ends on a luxury dude ranch on the Western Slope of Colorado. “There won’t be a single car out there, for starters,” Delaney said. “The diversity in topography out there is nuts. On the one hand it’s like a dry desert moonscape with book cliffs and sandstone red clay. But then you climb up and get into alpine terrain with pine trees, streams, and pools. You’ll start on wide, country roads and get off into gnarlier jeep track, and then you’ll be overlooking the Colorado River.” Registration for Roll Massif is open now. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io