Title: How to Master Group Rides

Text: Due to current social distancing measures and widespread stay at home orders, group riding is not recommended at this time. For the most up-to-date information, check resources like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO) regularly. For more information on safe solo riding, check here. Memories of my maiden group ride are still vivid. The coordinated hum and clicking of drivetrains. The synchronized pendulum-swing of bikes leaning through a turn. The exhilaration of breezing along effortlessly at 30 miles an hour. Pedaling a bike was already fun for its own sake, but a new world opened up the first time I impulsively hopped into line with a passing stampede of logo-covered thoroughbreds. Even years later, while I was kicking off my first block of structured training, riding with a group each day did more to help the hours and miles tick by than any playlist ever could. To the uninitiated, group rides can be intimidating. But if you want to make some friends, sharpen your riding skills, and get a real workout, ask at a local bike shop about weekly rides and take the plunge. Below, we’ve outlined a few things to keep in mind for your first few group rides. Here’s a quick lesson on staying safe in the pack: ​ Know the Type of Ride Group rides vary by ability level and format. Some are informal races, though most just roll along in an orderly rotation. Each group ride has its own set of rules and etiquette. Ask Questions Find one of the regulars and ask about etiquette specific to the ride. Does the group maintain a paceline the entire time, or is there a section of road where rules go out the window and it’s “game on?” Do people sprint for city-limit signs? Does the group stop for traffic signals or roll through them? Also, if you don’t know the route, ride next to someone who does. Otherwise, you might get caught out front and take the group off course. [Find 52 weeks of tips and motivation, with space to fill in your mileage and favorite routes, with the Bicycling Training Journal .] Keep the Rotation Smooth Most group rides roll along in a double paceline, in which two lines form and pairs of riders take pulls (ride at the front of the group into the wind) before swinging off and drifting to the back. A varied-intensity workout is one of the appeals of a group ride, but for everyone drafting behind, the pace should be as even as possible. A common mistake is for the leaders of a group ride to go extra hard up the hills and then coast down them. With little drafting at slow speeds, climbs tax everyone in the group equally. Conversely, if the leaders don’t actively fight the wind downhill, everyone behind them will have to ride the brakes. Earn goodwill from those behind you by going easy on the uphills, keeping it steady over top, and pedaling hard down the backside. Accelerations also strain riders behind, so refrain from surging ahead when your turn at the front arrives, or hammering out of corners and intersections. Communicate With Your Hands Signal for turns, regardless of your place in line. Point to the ground and even snap your fingers to warn of ground debris and rough pavement. For larger road hazards (joggers, parked cars) wave your hand behind or above you, motioning away from the object. A slap on the butt (your own) also communicates that an obstacle on that side of the road looms ahead. When you’re ready to finish your turn on the front, flick out your elbow on the same side you expect a new leader to pass. Don’t Overlap Wheels Try not to let the front of your wheel get ahead of the back of the one directly in front of you. Even if you can anticipate and avoid a swipe across your front wheel, doing so might require a jerk backward—right into the front wheel of someone behind. And, just like when you’re driving a car, learn to maintain the right distance behind traffic ahead while keeping your eyes trained farther up the road. Feel Free to Hang Back There’s absolutely no shame in avoiding the wind and resting at the back of the group, even for the entire ride. The mark of an experienced cyclist is that he or she doesn’t need to race or ride hard all the time. Knowing when to ride easy is a critical step in maturating as a cyclist. To take a break, simply stay at the tail end of the group and tell riders drifting back to get back into the rotation ahead of you. Many of them will even appreciate the opportunity to spend more time at the front. If you’re new to road cycling, a group ride is a good place to start. From the back, you can watch the dynamics of the group as it cruises smoothly up the road, and you won’t have to worry about interrupting riders nearby. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io