Title: Adidas and Peloton Clothing Collaboration

Text: Let’s face it: Athleisure is a trend that’s here to stay (especially after a year spent in and out of quarantine). Now, Adidas and Peloton have partnered to drop a line of performance wear and lifestyle pieces to add to your growing pile of spandex and comfy clothes.  You love cycling. We love cycling. Come join us! Get Bicycling All Access! The collection, Adidas x Peloton SS21, marks the start of an ongoing collaboration between the two popular brands. Peloton instructors Robin Arzón, Ally Love, and Cody Rigsby even helped guide the design process. “We wanted to make sure we’re putting something together that [makes] our community feel empowered but also powerful,” Love told Bicycling. “And we’ve noticed that—in terms of fashion trends, sports trends, this concept of athleisure, and any apparel you are working out in—there’s an element of it that affects how you feel about yourself. Being able to put it on and feel like you’re individually you, but also like you’re a part of a community.” The 11-piece collection gives a nod to the ’90s and includes tank tops, tights, shorts, hoodies, tees, crewnecks, sports bras, and joggers, which range in price from $30 to $85. The main focus for this collection is including people of all sizes, shapes, and styles—all pieces come in sizes XS to 2X, and span a variety of men’s, women’s, and unisex styles. “It’s really important that our community feels seen, and they feel thought about, and that shows up in not just sizing inclusivity but in gender-neutral apparel,” Love said. “We want folks to feel good about their bodies. We want them to know that their bodies are already good enough, and that we’re here as a collective to just work on our physical, mental, and spiritual self together when you show up on the bike, the treadmill, or the mat.” Rigsby echos this goal of representation and inclusivity via the collection. “The Peloton community is a global community—it represents different body types, different gender expressions. Anyone can wear anything, and that was something we wanted represented,” he told Bicycling. Adidas x Peloton SS21 Collection Adidas x Peloton SS21 takes functionality and comfort into account, as well. The fabric of the clothing is breathable, moisture-wicking, and movement-friendly, no matter how you like to sweat. “Many times when you are an athlete—it doesn’t matter what type of athlete—you have to lean into apparel or products in general that have functionality first,” Love said. “You need to know it’s going to function accordingly, no matter how long or how short you work out. You want to make sure there’s no chafing; you want to make sure that it moves with you.” The items in this collection were designed with all training modalities in mind. “Peloton offers strength classes, bootcamp classes, tread classes, cycling classes, meditation, outdoor runs—any of these pieces you can throw on, and you can feel fierce while you’re doing any type of workout,” Rigsby said. “We want people to move; we want people to create a relationship with their body; we want people to be their best selves.” This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Adidas x Peloton SS21 is available starting March 25 on adidas.com, in select Adidas retailers, apparel.onepeloton.com, and in select Peloton showrooms. Ahead of the launch, there was a series of on-demand classes starting March 18 to celebrate, as well as a live class—you can still find these classes on the Peloton Bike, Bike+, and the Peloton App. Instructors include Love, Rigsby, Ben Alldis (U.K.), and Mayla Wedekind (Germany). Read our full Peloton Bike Review Here. Read our full Peloton Bike+ Review Here. Additionally, on March 18, Adidas hosted exclusive Creators Club content, which included a raffle for members. The prize: Select apparel from the collection and a one-on-one virtual styling session with Ally Love or Cody Rigsby. Winners will be announced on March 25. Danielle Zickl Health and Fitness Editor Danielle specializes in interpreting and reporting the latest health research and also writes and edits in-depth service pieces about fitness, training, and nutrition. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io