Title: How to Find Gravel Roads Near You

Text: There’s one thing nearly all gravel riders want: more gravel. Though some gravel cyclists in remote regions such as the Ozarks, Flint Hills, and Sun Valley may have hundreds of miles of gravel roads right out their front door, others have to work a little harder to find a network of dirt roads to ride. The good news is that as more riders choose the paths less paved, there are more resources available to find great gravel routes to ride. Here’s where to look. Join Bicycling for More Gravel Tips and Training Advice! Go to Gravel Map Gravelmap.com launched in 2014 as a pet project, but it soon became a solid resource for stringing together gravel road routes in any given region. Just pop in an address or area where you want to ride and a Google Maps view shows up with the gravel roads highlighted in yellow. Of course, there are some caveats: It’s user-generated, so details on the roads can be a bit spotty. Does it carve through a low-lying bog? You’ll have to ride it to find out!  A relatively new and cool feature of Gravel Map is the inclusion of user-generated gravel routes, which are highlighted on the map in blue. You can browse for routes by county or zip code. Or you can just zoom out on the map as far as you want to see. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Gravel Map encourages users to suggest only open, accessible, public roads. Obviously, there’s no way for the website’s administrators to 100-percent guarantee that none of the roads on the site take you through private property. But they are generally pretty reliable in that regard. Once you find a route you like, you can simply download the GPX file and navigate it using your GPS bike computer. Explore Your National Forest Service National and state forests are filled with unpaved gems. You can find National Forest maps at the U.S. Forest Service website. This site includes links to “off-highway vehicle touring,” which means those routes are Jeep and motorcycle friendly—a designation that also makes them gravel bike fun. You also can check out the National Forest Foundation to find protected forestland—and sweet forest service roads—near you. 3 Cycling GPS Computers We Recommend Garmin Edge 1030 Plus The gold standard for computers with navigation. $600 | Garmin Buy Now Lezyne Enhanced Super GPS A mini GPS with mapping functions. $150-$225 | Amazon Buy Now Wahoo ELEMNT Bolt Compact and controlled through your smartphone. $230 | Competitive Cyclist Buy Now  Look Around Bike Reg Once events return with some regularity, you can always sign up for a gravel or mixed-terrain event near you and let someone else do the route-finding legwork. Just go to BikeReg and click the “Gravel Grinder” tab under “Events Near You” and select the miles and location you want to search. As gravel grows in popularity, there are more events popping up all the time. Amy Wolff Even if organized events aren’t your jam, you can surf around the site to find events in your area and then head to their homepages. Many events publish their routes, so you can discover new roads by checking out their courses. Check Out Rails-to-Trails The Rails-to-Trails Conservancy has been a force for gravel-trail goodness since 1986. There are currently more than 23,000 miles of rail-trails and more than 8,000 in the works. To find a network near you, head to TrailLink.com. Just search your region and the keyword “gravel.” Railstotrails.org also offers downloadable maps of Great American Rail-Trails in various states across the country from Washington, D.C. to Washington State. (The organization is working to establish the Great American Rail-Trail to create a seamless pathway across the entire country. The project is currently about 52 percent complete.) Search Your Own State Resources Google is your friend for this one. You can just search “(Your State) unpaved roads” and see what comes up. Chances are you’ll at least find some routes that Jeep enthusiasts favor. Some states also have their gravel and unpaved roads mapped out, like on these websites: ColoradoGravelRoads.com: This comprehensive site not only has almost every dirt road in the state mapped out, but also has a dropdown menu that lets you select from established gravel routes. IowaGravelRoads.com: Very similar to ColoradoGravelRoads.com, this map for Iowa shows nearly all the unpaved roads in the state and also offers a dropdown menu that allows you to select a route.  TravelOregon.com: This website includes a tab for gravel riding that offers a plethora of established gravel routes and also has an “explore gravel riding” tool that allows you to search by address, difficulty level, and distance to create a route that best suits you.  Unpaved Roads of Pennsylvania: This project created by Penn State University displays a comprehensive map of all the unpaved roads in the state highlighted in red.  Trevor Raab This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io