Title: How To Support The AAPI Community After The Atlanta Shootings

Text: A series of shootings in the Atlanta area on Tuesday has left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent. Police have still not confirmed a motive of the 21-year-old white man arrested for the shooting, but many believe it was a hate crime. Racist attacks on Asian Americans have been on the rise recently. Data from the New York Police Department shows there was a 1,900 percent (not a typo) increase in anti-Asian hate crimes in New York City from 2019 to 2020. There were 20 attacks reported in the first half of 2020, and only one incident in all of 2019. Nonprofit Stop AAPI Hate, which tracks discrimination against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders across the country, released a statement after the shootings, calling them an “unspeakable tragedy—for the families of the victims first and foremost, but also for the Asian American community, which has been reeling from high levels of racist attacks over the course of the past year.” (You can donate to Stop AAPI Hate here.) The organization continued, “This latest attack will only exacerbate the fear and pain that the Asian American community continues to endure.” This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The reported shootings of Asian American women on Tuesday in Atlanta is an unspeakable tragedy – for the families of the victims first and foremost, but also for the AAPI community — which has been reeling from high levels of racial discrimination. https://t.co/rBVPnrEBps — Stop AAPI Hate (@StopAAPIHate) March 17, 2021 It’s easy to feel helpless when a tragedy like this happens. But, if you’re financially able, donating to support the AAPI community can help. Here are some nonprofit charities and local grassroots organizations: Founded in 1991, this national nonprofit works to protect civil and human rights for Asian Americans by promoting justice for all Americans, empowering AAPI communities, bringing local and national constituencies together, and ensuring Asian Americans are able to fully participate in democracy. Overall Charity Navigator Score: 92.45 out of 100 AAJA is a membership nonprofit advancing diversity in newsrooms with members in the United States and Asia, and working to ensure fair and accurate coverage of communities of color. Overall Charity Navigator Score: 80.11 out of 100 Since its founding in 1993, APEN has been empowering low-income Asian Pacific Islander communities to achieve environmental and social justice. Red Canary Song is a grassroots collective that supports Asian and migrant sex workers across the country, including offering legal help. This pan-Asian community-based organization works to support low-income Asian immigrants and refugees in New York City. It also pushes for broader racial and economic justice for these communities. Formed by sex workers, social workers, and legal and health professionals, this organization strives to provide support and education to Asian and migrant sex workers and decrease the risk of violence they face each day. The Canadian non-profit helps support Asian women who are engaged in sex work. KIWA provides information on labor laws and assists Korean immigrant workers who have experienced wage theft to advocate for themselves. Korin Miller Korin Miller is a freelance writer specializing in general wellness, sexual health and relationships, and lifestyle trends, with work appearing in Men’s Health, Women’s Health, Self, Glamour, and more. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io