Title: Mongoose Brings Fat Bikes to the Masses

Text: Mongoose wants more cyclists to embrace the fat lifestyle. The company, known for its value bikes, added three new fat models as well as a 27.5+ option for riders who aren’t prepared to go all in on super-wide tires. The company even created a model just for kids. The brand sells basic bikes through department stores and mass merchants, but last year began offering more expensive models direct through its website.  The company’s Argus fat bike gets two prodigious siblings: the Expert and Comp. The new models get 4.5-inch Kenda Juggernaut tires (with gumwalls, mounted to 100mm gold rims) that are half an inch wider than those on the original version. The $1,899 Expert comes with a 120mm travel Rockshox Blutofork that provides comfort and control over bumps that the fat tires can’t soak up. The $1,199 Comp has the same frame, but a rigid fork.  The 27.5+ Ruddy line comprises two models with aluminum frames. The Expert, which costs $1,899, comes with WTB’s Trailblazer 2.8-inch tires mounted on 50mm-wide tubeless-ready rims. It also has a 120mm Manitou Magnum fork with 110mm hub spacing and a handlebar-mounted lockout. Mongoose complements the fat tires with a wide 760mm handlebar, which creates more steering leverage so muscling the bike through a corner should feel less strenuous. The Hayes Radar disc brakes have 180mm rotors to boost stopping power and to limit heat buildup. The $1,499 Ruddy Comp costs $1,499 and comes with a SR Suntour Raidon fork, FSA crankset, and Shimano Deore 2x10 drivetrain.  Mongoose wants kids to benefit from fat tires incredible floatation, too. It added a 20-inch version to the Argus line. The bike has 4-inch tires, a 1x8 Shimano drivetrain, and Mongoose-branded disc brakes. Total cost is $500.  These new Mongoose models should be available by this fall and can be ordered directly from mongoose.com. The final price includes delivery charges to most states. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io