Title: You Can Totally (and Safely!) Bike Tour Through Iraq and North Korea—If You Follow This Guy

Text: You might be carried by a pack animal if you crash hard, but you'll always be taken care of on Tom Bodkin's bike tours. His company, Secret Compass, specializes in touring remote and often strife-riddled destinations, like Afghanistan and Iran, by bike or on foot. And, he says, the trips are surprisingly safe. We caught up with the British paratrooper veteran (two tours of Afghanistan) at his London offices to chat bike touring, risk, and why everyone should consider a trip outside of their comfort zone. Bicycling: It seems like a terrible idea to take people biking across remote and dangerous lands. Tom Bodkin: Places that people think of as dangerous are often not. The best two examples are Iran and North Korea, where there’s no real danger for travelers. Life is so tightly controlled that there’s no crime. And in North Korea [pictured above], there are no vehicles so there’s very minimal risk of traffic accidents, which is by far your biggest risk while traveling [by bike]. The only real risk in Iran and the DPRK are from the regimes, and as long as you act sensibly and do what you’re told, you have nothing to worry about. We’ve been doing trips in these countries for over a decade, and I’d say they are two of the safest places on Earth to travel. [Want to fly up hills? Climb! gives you the workouts and mental strategies to conquer your nearest peak.] Why did you start these tours? After I left the military, I had no idea what I wanted to do, but I wanted some freedom over my life and the opportunity to live and travel abroad. Before the army, I worked for a company that ran trips to Africa for young people. So I thought, ‘Why not run expeditions to cool places that people might not otherwise go?’ Bodkin teaches a member of his support team to ride a bike for the first time, during a nine-day tour in Afghanistan. Dan Milner Why do you think it’s important to travel to remote hotspots like these? Going and meeting people in these places and understanding who they are and their cultures is the best way to break down walls between us. As an example, on our Iran trip, clients arrive quite nervous but inevitably leave saying things like, “This is the most welcoming place on Earth.” And in North Korea, you get a very different opinion on socialism, [but] obviously there are problems. Basically it comes down to that Mark Twain quote about travel removing prejudice and narrow-mindedness. Going to these places that we as a society fear makes you realize that the people everywhere are the same, just like you and me. Where do you consider dangerous? There are definitely places we won’t take tourists: Parts of Iraq, outside of Kurdistan. The war zones in Syria, though there are places in that country you could travel and be fine. The Horn of Africa, parts of Pakistan and Afghanistan, parts of Colombia, and even parts of Mexico. But what people overlook is that just because a certain region or province is off limits doesn’t mean the entire country is dangerous. Your trips have military-style extraction plans. Have you ever had to use these? We always have a backup plan, though we rarely use them. We have a team going to Sudan, for instance, and though we’re comfortable with the potential risks of the protests in Khartoum, we have an extraction plan through Egypt should the situation spiral out of control. Mostly, it’s about medical emergencies. We had one woman break her leg at a 13,000-foot-high advanced basecamp in western Mongolia. Helicopter evacuation wasn’t possible, but our backup, to carry her out, first by hand, then on camels, to meet an ambulance at a pre-set spot, went to plan. How long did that take?! It’s important to remember how remote these places are: It took 30 hours from injury to arrival at the first hospital, and 42 hours to a second-level hospital with true capabilities. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. How do bikes fit into exotic travel? Not everywhere is suited to riding. But we use bikes when possible because they add to the experience. Bikes are interactive, they break down barriers. Everyone in the world has seen bikes, and can relate to them…well, we met a few guys in the Wakhan Corridor [Afghanistan’s eastern panhandle, between Tajikistan and Pakistan] who had not. But few have seen bikes like ours, with six inches of suspension and massive tires. Still, they can get on our bikes and take a little spin around the village. And then you have our guys riding down vertical rock gardens and doing jumps, and it creates this curiosity. People take photos and videos and ask who we are. The bikes become a way of creating connections. You’ve been running hiking trips in North Korea for years, but last fall you did a mountain bike trip there. What was the riding like? The trip was exploratory, and our expectations were pretty low. We rode in three mountain sectors of the country, and it was all wild and raw. There were places where we were climbing ladders and doing fourth-class scrambling with bikes on our backs. The weather was absolutely horrific, too, with pouring rain and 70 mph winds. Still, we saw lots of stunning scenery and rode incredible trails where surely no one has ridden before. I don’t think we will run mountain bike trips there, but if someone wanted to do a private trip, I’d gladly take them. The fun of trips like this is the unknown. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io