Title: Ayesha McGowan's ‘Thee Abundance Summit’

Text: Pro cyclist Ayesha McGowan is hosting an inaugural virtual summit, called Thee Abundance Summit, to celebrate Black and Brown folks in the outdoors. The event, on March 26 and 27, is free to attend. Donation are being accepted for a mini grant that will help women of color, amateur road cyclists progress their racing skills by offering support and free entry to the Tour of America’s Dairyland race. You can sign up for the summit on McGowan’s web site, A Quick Brown Fox. Pro cyclist Ayesha McGowan is hosting a virtual summit on March 26 and 27 to celebrate BIPOC joy in cycling and the outdoors. The two-day event, called “Thee Abundance Summit,” will be streamed on McGowan’s YouTube channel, A Quick Brown Fox. McGowan became the first African-American woman pro cyclist when she recently joined Liv Racing’s WorldTour team roster. She’s long been a cycling advocate and champion of diversifying the sport. 🚨 Join Bicycling All Access for the latest cycling news, fitness tips, and fresh gear reviews 🚲 “I think it’s absolutely necessary that I host a celebration of joy. All too often we are only invited to share our pain, our struggles, and our sorrows. This is a space where we, as Black and Brown people in the cycling and outdoor communities, can bring our full selves with the sole purpose of having a good time,” McGowan said in her press release. The summit is free to attend, though donations are being accepted for a mini grant that will help women of color, amateur road cyclists progress their racing skills by offering support and free entry to the Tour of America’s Dairyland race. The summit will be co-hosted by Jools Walker , bike advocate and author of Back in the Frame, and Olivia Williams. Both days feature a full lineup: There will be workshops on zine making, basic photography, how to buy a new bike, and how to use Zwift; group discussion panels, including with Olympic silver medalist Nelson Vails ; a keynote speech by NYC’s Bicycle Mayor Courtney Williams, and more. The second day will kick off with a group Zwift ride (followed by a shower break, of course) and end with a live dance party with DJ Black Daria. Check out McGowan’s website to see the full schedule. All presentations will be accessible to the hearing impaired as well. Our Favorite Bicycling Stories Written by Ayesha McGowan I Love Being a Black Cyclist, But It's Exhausting I Thought I Knew My Spouse. Then We Honeymooned at a Bike Park Diversity Is Cycling’s Most Urgent Problem—Here’s How to Fix It 15 Influential Black Cyclists You Need to Follow on Instagram Today Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io