Title: Watopia Is the Best Place to Ride This Winter

Text: When the conditions get too wild out on the real roads this winter, you know you can always head to one of the hottest riding destinations—a place where you never have to gear up for bad weather, the scenery is beautiful, the group rides are friendly, the racing is crash-free, and maybe best of all there’s no traffic or stoplights. If it all sounds too good to be real, that’s because it is. Sort of. Watopia, of course, is the centerpiece of Zwift’s virtual world, an indoor cycling paradise that offers something for everyone. It has arguably become the number-one winter destination for cyclists, hosting hundreds of thousands of riders. I’ve spent countless hours riding and researching the roads, scenery, and customs of Watopia. It may sound strange to the uninitiated, but for myself and many others, Watopia has grown into a real place with its own history, inside jokes, and social norms. Here are my tips for making the most of your winter in Watopia. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Ride Here While you can choose your own turns in Watopia, with around 30 predefined routes—and others for events and runners—it removes the need to navigate. Even after I had put in over 17,000 miles on my smart trainer, and I still had several to cross off my list! Routes range from just a few miles to the Über Pretzel’s 72k, so there’s a course for every ride plan. Fuego Flats Courtesy Eric Schlange/Zwift Riders looking for a steady effort on flat roads have traditionally chosen to ride Watopia Flat, with its underwater ocean tube, or Volcano Flat, with its smoking lava pools. But lmy favorite flat route has been Tempus Fugit in the recently added Fuego Flats desert. The scenery is expansive and entertaining, including a road sign warning of “Sand” (you’re surrounded by it). When I’m looking for a hard, hour-long effort, I choose the Road to Sky route and climb Alpe du Zwift. Even if you’re not a climber, you’ve got to tackle the Alpe at least once. Every other Watopian road is pure fantasy, but Alpe du Zwift is a GPS-perfect replica of the iconic Alpe d’Huez and its 21 hairpins. Alpe du Zwift Courtesy Eric Schlange/Zwift Indoor times mirror outdoor on this 3,400-foot climb: The strongest Zwifters get to the top in under 40 minutes, but many riders shoot for the hour mark. Just like outdoors, it’s tough to keep your power low on a Watopian climb. Don’t start too hard up the Alpe—this may be the longest climb you’ve ever attempted! I try to pace myself so I can bump up my effort when I hit MacReady Point (turn 3), then go all-out once I make the final hairpin. If the Alpe is a bit much, the Epic KOM is Watopia’s next-largest climb, gaining 1,361 feet over 5.8 miles. This was Watopia’s first “big” climb, and I love how the atmosphere changes as I ascend. The surround sounds of the German village make me feel like I’m really there, but it’s when the snow starts falling and I actually feel a bit cooler sweating in my pain cave that things get a little weird.  If you’re looking for a mix of flats, rollers, and shorter climbs, I suggest Titans Grove as it’s probably one of Zwift’s most stunning landscape to date. Then again I may be biased—the virtual redwoods remind me of my home turf. I like the challenge of the Sand and Sequoias route, which begins in the flat desert, then takes me into Titans Grove, where I have to pay attention and work hard to keep my speed up over the rollers and timed KOM. This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. You don’t have to be working hard to enjoy Watopia. When you decide on a recovery ride, look around and take in some of the quirky details, like Jarvis the Bear, who lives in Titans Grove and is engaged in an eternal battle to obtain honey. Or there’s the Mayan Jungle sloth who waves as you pass beneath. I imagine him saying, “Enjoy the descent, but you’ll have to climb out!” The Mayan Jungle sloth Courtesy Eric Schlange/Zwift Filling the Social Calendar New roads and dramatic vistas are great, but it’s Watopia’s social scene—the interaction with real people—that keeps me coming back. Where else could I jump on my bike before sunrise and ride with others from around the world? If this is your first Watopian winter, make sure you try a group ride or two. There are numerous rides that have been going steady for years, and each has its own flavor. I may pick Monday night’s “Back to Work” ride if I want something close to race pace, or the TGIF Ride on Friday night to wind down from a long week. After trying a group ride, take it to the next level with a Zwift race. Back in 2015, my first Zwift races taught me that I had more in the tank than I realized. This changed my outdoor riding forever—maybe it’ll do the same for you.  Take some time and find what grabs you. Watopia is a paradise for all types of riders, and once you find what works for you, you’ll want to do it again and again—and not only in winter. Volcano Flat Courtesy Eric Schlange/Zwift Essentials for the Best Zwift Setup Smart Trainer Saris backcountry.com $999.99 SHOP NOW A direct drive trainer like this one from Saris give a realistic ride feel and super-accurate power. Big Screen TV TCL amazon.com $455.00 SHOP NOW Plug that gaming PC into a screen that rivals your bike’s wheelbase and enjoy all of Watopia’s beautiful landscapes in pristine detail. Strong Fan wahoofitness.com $249.99 SHOP NOW Stay cool so you can make your best effort. I prefer fans like this one that put out a lot of air in a focused area. Tips on Virtual Gear for Real Speed The equipment your avatar uses affects your in-game speed on Watopia, so use your Drops (Zwift’s virtual currency) wisely. For beginners, the Specialized Allez Sprint is the most attainable aero frame, and it’s one slippery machine when coupled with the affordable Zipp 808 wheels. Want the best climbing bike? Go with a Specialized Tarmac Pro paired with Meilenstein Lightweight wheels from the prize spinner atop Alpe du Zwift. (If you’re lucky, it’ll only take you a few tries to get the wheels. It took me 13!) Related video: Find your perfect indoor trainer. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io