Title: How to Be a Rider: Huong Tran

Text: Eric Arce Huong Tran, 27, a gross pathology specialist from Salt Lake City, Utah, shares what she thinks makes her a true rider. Check out the picks, then compare yourself with other cyclists in the polls to see where you stand with everybody else! This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Explore Routine and familiarity are great. But exploring new things is where you find adventure. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Sunset I love the golden hour. Chasing daylight on your bike is the best way to go. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Need Biking has become such a need. I need it for exercise, for fun, and for my mental health. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Doughnuts I can’t resist big, fluffy doughnuts. Sugar all the way! This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Descend When I first started biking, descending and progressively picking up speed was terrifying. Now I absolutely love it. It makes me so happy. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Experiences Experience the journey. Take in the flow of the trail, the beautiful scenery, and the laughs and banter with friends. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her pick: Spandex