Title: Pivot Shuttle: An E-Mountain Bike That Goes BIG

Text: Price: $10,000 Weight: 45.6 lbs for size medium (claimed) Style: E-mountain bike Drivetrain: Shimano XT Di2 11speed Material: Carbon Travel: 150mm fork, 140mm shock Wheel Size: 27.5" Tire clearance: 27.5 x 3" Right bike for: E-bike lovers who want a true, elite-level e-mountain bike Buy Now View 35 Images Forget everything you knew about e-mountain bikes and get ready for the Pivot Shuttle. It’s a full-suspension (150mm fork, 140mm shock) e-mountain bike with a carbon frame, 150mm dropper post, Shimano Di2, and a Shimano E8000 drive unit. With the Shuttle, bike park days will never be the same. Your favorite descent and least favorite climb just got better thanks to its 500Wh battery that provides a 20mph pedal assist for up to 40 miles (claimed) in trail mode. The burly Maxxis Minion DHF 27.5” x 2.8” front tire is super grippy and the Maxxis Rekon 27.5” x 2.8” rear tire falls into place nicely to provide plenty of grip on the back end. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. 150mm Fork and 140mm Shock The 150mm Fox Performance Elite fork and custom-valved 140mm Fox Float Performance Elite DPX2 shock are tuned for the unique demands of going big on an e-mountain bike. Shimano XT M8020 four-piston brakes and massive rotors (180mm rear, 203mm front) provide pinpoint control, which is critical for ripping downhill with the extra weight that comes with an e-bike. Even if the Shuttle is billed as the world’s lightest Class 1 e-mountain bike, the handling is noticeably different than your average trail bike. In short, this ain’t your grandparent’s e-bike. It’s an e-mountain bike that can probably go harder than you’re able to (This is not a challenge. Always ride responsibly and acknowledge your personal limitations when you ride). View 35 Images The 140mm shock is custom-valved to handle the demands of e-bike riding. Trevor Raab Full Carbon Frame and Plenty of Range The stars of this show are the full-carbon frame, which dramatically reduces the overall weight, and the Shimano E8000 drive unit, which provides up to 20mph of pedal assist for a claimed 40 miles in trail mode. Although actual range is largely determined by how much you are using the pedal-assist, the Shuttle’s range should give most riders more than enough distance to handle long trail days. And of course you can adjust the power mode up or down on the fly. For an afternoon at Northstar Bike Park, I had no trouble leaving it in Boost mode for the entire ride in order to more comfortably reach the 8,600ft summit. View 35 Images The battery indicator displays the battery mode, current speed, and estimate remaining battery life at current usage. Trevor Raab Shimano XT Di2 1 X 11 Drivetrain In an effort to make a top-shelf e-mountain bike, the Shuttle comes with a Shimano XT Di2 1x 11-speed drivetrain. The 34t chainring is a little bigger than you’d normally see on a bike with an 11-46 cassette, but the 34x 46 set up, when combined with the pedal-assist motor, will get you up most climbs. I rode straight to the summit on Boost mode, right up some very steep pitches, and never used the entire cassette. To control the ride, Pivot included Shimano XT M8020 four-piston hydraulic disc brakes, an upgrade from the previous edition that only had two-piston brakes, and 180mm rear and 203mm front brake rotors. You can really let this bike fly with full confidence in its stopping power. Long, Low, and Slack Geometry The Shuttle is undeniably a trail bike. The 126.19cm wheelbase (size XL), which is a whopping 3.25cm longer than the trail-oriented Pivot Mach 5.5, will inspire confidence and a feeling of stability as you rocket over gnarly terrain. The super laid back head angle (65.8 degrees) combined with 51mm of fork offset make for a rock solid front end that is forgiving should you get a little too far forward. The reach (49cm) and stack (63.02cm) closely mirror the Mach 5.5. The bottom bracket height, however, is considerably higher than the Mach 5.5 (34.8cm vs. 34.04cm, respectively). View 35 Images The 150mm dropper post takes the seat completely out of the way when navigating steep drops. Trevor Raab Comfortable Uphill, Nimble Downhill This is a high-end, long travel e-mountain bike, so naturally the first thing I did was ride up a long flight of stairs and head straight to the top of the mountain near Interbike’s OutDoor Demo. The little bit of extra boost from the pedal-assist motor put a smile on my face while cruising up the stairs, and 45 minutes later I found myself at the 8,600 ft. summit. I comfortably cruised well over 10mph for the bulk of the climb on steep, loose, and gravely fire roads. I occasionally lost my front wheel on hairpin turns, when I put a little power into the pedals and got more than I bargained for once the assist kicked in. View 35 Images The 2.8" Maxxis Minion DHF front tire bites into the trail very well. Trevor Raab Heading back downhill, the first thing I noticed was the extra weight of the bike because it was tougher to pull the front wheel up ahead of some anticipated compressions. Ripping through flowy singletrack was a real joy. In Boost mode, I was casually riding faster than I typically see in serious XC races. This is a high-end machine that’s more than capable of handling big drops, massive descents, and long days at the bike park. If you love to go big but hate to wait in line for the lift, this bike is a viable e-mountain option. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io