Title: Brompton Custom Bikes for Crew Nation

Text: Brompton Bicycles is auctioning off 13 custom bikes later this month to benefit Crew Nation, a global relief fund for helping live music crew workers negatively impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. The one-of-a-kind folding bikes have been designed in collaboration with musicians and industry professionals. The auction will take place online on Greenhouse Auctions, and bidding will open on May 28 and run until June 12. Brompton Bicycles, the British folding bike company, has crafted 13 one-of-a-kind bikes to auction off later this month to benefit Crew Nation, a global relief fund for helping live music crew workers negatively impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. Each bike has been custom designed in collaboration with well-known musicians and industry professionals—including the bands Radiohead, Rise Against, and Foo Fighters—and beautifully reflect each artist’s aesthetics. → Get Bicycling All Access for the latest cycling news! “In the last year, people around the world have been disrupted by the pandemic. Artists, crews and all the people who bring music to life have seen their livelihoods disappear. At the same time, the bike industry is booming, which lead me to ask, how can Brompton help our friends in the music industry?” Tevis Jory, Brompton’s music project lead and north america sales manager, said in the company’s online statement. Featured artists: Foo Fighters, Radiohead, Phoebe Bridgers, LCD Soundsystem, Khruangbin, Nathan East, Dinosaur Jr, Oh Wonder, Underworld, Sub Pop, Enrique Iglesias, Rise Against and Neko Case. Radiohead’s custom Brompton, designed by Stanley Donwood, the creator of the band’s album art. Courtesy Brompton “Whenever we’ve really wanted to feel the pulse of a city, we’ve turned to riding bikes through the alleys and streets of the cities around the world that our fans call home,” Tim McIlrath of Rise Against told Brompton. “Our road crew are our family and we rely on them to bring you the show we play in your town. While some of the gears of industry kept moving this last year, the live music industry ground to a complete stop and has yet to meaningfully resume.”  The auction will take place online on Greenhouse Auctions, and bidding will open on May 28 and run until June 12. All of the profits will go towards Crew Nation. Those interested in participating and learning more about the bikes can sign up for notifications on Brompton’s website. Four of the bikes have already been unveiled, with more being shared in the coming weeks on Brompton’s Instagram account. So far, three of the custom designs appear on Brompton’s Black Edition M6L bikes and one on its Superlight M6L. Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io