Title: Bible Review: Juliana Furtado

Text: The Juliana Furtado is everything a good 27.5-inch-wheeled bike should be: fun, playful, versatile, agile…all the buzzwords. And though it’s been refined and modernized over its four generations, the 130/140 trail bike has managed to retain the ride characteristics that continually make it Juliana’s best-selling model. The Furtado (also known as the 5010 in the Santa Cruz line-up; frames are the same, shock tunes and contact points differ) runs on the latest version of VPP, and its frame is now designed around the lower shock placement that started with the V10, and has since trickled down the line. The new architecture allowed for a new leverage curve, resulting in better small-bump compliance, improved traction and added mid-stroke support, a characteristic that’s historically been VPP’s Achilles heel. Testers universally agreed that these changes resulted in a ride performance that puts Santa Cruz’s venerable suspension platform at the top of its game. Our test course included one seriously chunky climb, with several successive rock and root ledges in a steep, switchbacking section of singletrack that connected two fire roads. Although no one cleaned the gnarled trail start-to-finish, we found the Furtado/5010 to be one of the best climbers of the bunch—strong claims considering it was in the same company as two of the most efficient suspension platforms on the market: Yeti’s Switch Infinity and DW-Link on the Ibis Mojo. Seemingly, no obstacle could hang up the rear end and one tester even cleaned more of the rock-laden climb on the 5010 than any other bike in the test fleet. The suspension, which on the Juliana is tuned for lighter passengers, did feel more active on climbs than the Mojo, and the lockout switch is a far reach for on-the-fly adjustments (one downside of that lower shock placement), but the Furtado is efficient enough that it’s not detrimental if you don’t flip it in time for a punchy climb. And the lockout on the RockShox Super Deluxe Ultimate was too firm for most climbs anyway. Climbing was also helped along by the Furtado’s steep 77-degree seat tube angle, which made for a comfortable seated climbing position and kept the front wheel tamped down on Marin’s notoriously wall-like fire roads.