Title: Yep, the Haibike XDURO Nduro 10.5 Is an Enduro E-Bike

Text: Price: $7,000 Weight: 51 lb. (M, claimed) Style: Enduro e-bike Drivetrain: Shimano XT Frame material: Aluminum Travel: 180mm, front and rear Wheel size: 27.5 The right bike for: Riders who go big, but want help on the climbs The Haibike XDURO Nduro 10.5 is a massive enduro e-bike with 180mm of suspension from a RockShox Lyric RC fork and a Bosch Performance CX motor with 75Nm of torque. I took it on a few laps at Northstar Bike Park in Truckee, California, to see how it performed on the gravelly climbs and bermy descents. Nduro Family The Nduro family is part of the XDURO line, which is composed of the brand’s “advanced offroad” models. It includes the 150mm AllMtn, the 120mm FullSeven Carbon, the FatSix fat bike, and the self-explanatory Dwnhll. There are five Nduro models, ranging from the $4,800 Nduro 7.0 to the $7,300 Nduro 10.0. The 7.0 and the $6,200 9.0 come with a Yamaha PW-X drive unit; the other three models come with a Bosch Performance CX Motor. The Bosch Performance CX provides 75Nm of torque. Trevor Raab Enduro Geometry The Nduro’s geometry is relatively similar to other enduro bikes in the same travel ranges. It has a 65.5-degree head tube angle, 420mm chainstays, and a 74-degree seat tube angle. There’s some e-bike specific stuff too: A shock-resistant skid plate covers the motor below the bottom bracket, and the chain runs over a pulley on the seat tube that the company says helps pick up chain slack when the suspension compresses.  RockShox Suspension A RockShox Lyric RC fork provides 180mm of travel. 75Nm of Torque The Bosch Performance Line CX motor is optimized for sporty use. Compact Display A Bosch Purion display shows mode, speed, distance, range, and more. 500Wh Battery The Bosch Powerpack 500 can last up to a claimed 65 miles. Haibike SkidPlate A shock-resistant skid plate covers the motor below the bottom bracket. The Test While the Nduro’s numbers may look like those of a typical enduro bike, that’s just not the case. Sure, it’s got 180mm of travel and a 65.5-degree head angle—theoretically things you’d want for smashing gnarly trails—but it also has a 10-pound motor sitting right above the bottom bracket, which complicates handling. That extra weight on the frame makes it so the bike doesn’t handle particularly well in tech. It’s slow to adapt to sudden changes in line and can feel awkward and clunky through rock gardens. The Nduro I tested came with a Bosch Performance CX system (other Nduro models are spec’d with a Yamaha PW-X motor). Going up hills was a blast—just crank the motor up to “turbo” and spin the pedals quickly to get the best benefit. There’s also the relatively new eMTB mode, in which the motor gauges how quickly and how hard you’re pedaling to provide the best amount of power for that moment. While this stuff is awesome going up, it can be a little strange on the trail. The motor kicks in unexpectedly at times, which can propel you into obstacles you might not expect. I found it best to keep it in the lowest modes while on singletrack. I had trouble seeing myself taking this bike into the sections of trail that I would normally ride a 180mm bike on—it definitely wants to stay on the ground. And while I didn’t ride any super-steep segments, I imagine the bike’s mass would cause me to accelerate faster than expected. The Nduro has 180mm of rear travel. Trevor Raab But still: There’s a lot of benefit to this bike. It was the second one I tested on the same day, same trail. On the first, I labored up the climb to the trails at Northstar Bike Park in Truckee, California, with my sea-level lungs burning the whole way. When I got to the top, I could barely enjoy the descent because all I could think about was how I’d have to climb up again. But on the Nduro, I was able to zip to the top, not without effort, but easily enough that it was pleasant. And while the way down wasn’t perfect, I still had fun. The subset of riders who need a bike like this is small. But for those people who need a boost of power to get them into places they wouldn’t normally go, and the travel to handle whatever comes their way, it can be a great choice.