Title: 12 Group Rides to Keep You Sweating Over the Holidays

Text: Editor’s note: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many events listed from 2019 have gone virtual or are not taking place in 2020. If an event is happening, the date is listed. Please be mindful of group rides this year. The holidays are hectic, but that’s no excuse for hanging up your wheels. Across the country, cycling clubs and advocates are celebrating the season with group rides of various lengths, speeds, and skill levels. So grab your winter cycling gear and deck your ride in tinsel—you have some distance to cover before the year is done.  Holiday Lights Bike Ride - Des Moines, Iowa About: Beaverdale Bicycles, a local shop, usually hosts this free ride through the Beaverdale neighborhood of Des Moines. This social ride will last around an hour and end back at the shop, where riders can enjoy cider, cookies, and hot cocoa. Learn More  Lights strung between rowhomes in South Philly. Bicycle Coalition of Greater Philadelphia Holiday Lights Ride (Virtual) - Philadelphia  When: December 1-December 31 About: The Bicycle Coalition of Greater Philadelphia usually hosts this annual 7-mile group ride through South Philly, a part of the city replete with elaborate holiday light displays. While this year’s event has gone virtual, riders are encouraged to get equally festive with seasonal attire and bike accessories for a new choose-your-own adventure event. Riders can select from a 4.5, 6.5, or 11.5 mile route through the winter wonderland that is South Philly and do the ride any time during the month. Learn More Tour de Lights - Atlanta About: Festoon your bike in holiday lights for this social-pace, no-drop ride that runs 6-8 miles through Metro Atlanta. This year’s route ends with drinks and ice skating at Atlantic Station, a neighborhood hosting the city’s largest Christmas market. Riders also have the chance to win a brand new bike in an Instagram-hosted giveaway. Learn More  Santa makes an appearance at the Tour de Lights in Knoxville, Tennessee. Knoxville Regional Bicycle Program Tour de Lights (Virtual) - Knoxville, Tennessee When: Anytime About: During normal years, more than 1,000 people turn out for the in-person edition of this free, 5-mile bike parade through downtown Knoxville. The festivities continue this year, albeit virtually, with a costume contest complete with prizes. Learn More The Holiday Lights Ride in Orlando, Florida. Steven Miller Holiday Lights Ride - Orlando, Florida About: Take a tour of Orlando’s Audubon Park Garden District with this 6-mile, kid-friendly ride hosted by Bikes, Beans, & Bordeaux, a local cafe. Decorating your bike is encouraged, though helmets and bike lights are required. This year’s ride ends at Eventide Brewery for a fire pit hangout complete with tacos and trivia. Learn More  Editor’s Choice Showers Pass Waterproof Crosspoint $45.00 Buy Now Breathable, lightweight, waterproof knit gloves Good for Mountain Biking Craft Siberian Split Finger $62.00 Buy Now Our favorite lobster-style glove Low bulk, high warmth Assos Assosoires Ultraz Assos competitivecyclist.com $125.00 SHOP NOW Long cuffs seal in warmth Best for Fast Road Rides Endura Windchill Endura amazon.com $47.50 Buy Now Windproof back, breathable palm Best Lightweight Fox Racing Ranger Fox Racing amazon.com Buy Now Sweat-wicking gloves for MTBers Community Bike Ride - Miami Lakes, Florida About: This second annual ride will take riders on a loop through the Miami suburbs. Attendees are encouraged to decorate themselves and their wheels with costumes and accessories. Pre-registration is highly recommended. Learn More  Holiday Bike Ride - Las Vegas, Nevada About: Get into the spirit of giving by bringing an unopened toy to donate for this 10-mile ride organized by the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada. Show up with your best bike decorations and holiday outfit for a chance to win a prize. Learn More  Holiday Lights Bike Ride - Arlington, Virginia About: This 6-mile ride, hosted by BikeArlington and a local Trek Bicycles shop, tours light displays around the Northern Virginia suburb. Winter bike decorations and costumes are encouraged, and the festivities continue after the ride with refreshments at the Trek location. Learn More Holiday Lights Bike Ride - Lincoln, Nebraska About: This night ride begins with hot cider and cookies at Cycle Works, a local bike shop hosting the event. From there riders will cruise at a “chit-chat” pace through Lincoln’s Sheridan neighborhoods before ending at a pizzeria. Helmets, front lights, and rear lights are required, while costumes are encouraged. Learn More Critical Christmas - Monterey, California When: December 20 About: The official motto of this free event, now more than 20 years in the running, is “more of everything.” According to organizers, that means “you cannot have enough battery-powered junk attached to you or your bike.” Decked-out cyclists will pedal an out-and-back route along a recreational trail. Children are welcome, as is caroling and “anything goofy.” Learn More One of Santa’s helpers shows up to the Holiday Lights Ride in Orlando. Bikes, Beans, & Bordeaux New Year’s Eve Ride and Dance Party - New York City About: Finish the year on a high note with this free night ride, running from the iconic Plaza Hotel in Midtown Manhattan to the Lower East Side. Afterward, participants are invited to ring in 2020 with an indoor dance party featuring live music, DJs, and a marching band at the Museum of Reclaimed Urban Space. Learn More New Year’s Day Ride - Long Beach, California About: This is a 90-mile ride that charts south down the Pacific Coast Highway from Long Beach to Dana Point, Orange County, with new riders joining along the way. The pace begins slow and friendly before picking up speed in Huntington Beach. Learn More This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io