Title: Win a Vivelo Bike With a Panera Bread Bowl Basket

Text: Panera, the popular restaurant and bakery, is known for selling many incredible (...incredibly delicious) items: soups, salads, sandwiches, and an endless variety of baked goods and breads, including its iconic bread bowl. And now, you can add bicycles to that list. Well, sort of. Panera will be giving away 30 branded bicycles manufactured by Vivelo. The bikes are custom-made, classic beach cruisers with a Panera-themed paint job and an insulated ‘bread bowl’ basket for the handlebar—perfect for storing away your favorite foods (Frontega chicken sandwich, anyone?) as you pedal around town. Honestly, the bread bowl basket is so cool, it should be mass-produced and sold at bike shops everywhere. → Sign up for Bicycling All Access, and we’ll let you know about all the coolest bikes—with or without a bread basket Courtesy Panera The bike also features an aluminum frame, a traditional coaster brake plus a front brake, a Shimano Nexus three-speed rear hub, front and rear fenders, 26-inch wheels, front and rear lights, and an eco-leather saddle and handlebar grips. If you want to sign up, go to breadbowlbike.com anytime between April 14 and April 22 and enter your information—full name, address, email, and phone number. Enter Now! RELATED: Panera Has Created a Bread Bowl Glove, So You Can Still Drink Your Iced Coffee in the Winter Courtesy Panera The bike giveaway is in honor of Earth Day, which is celebrated on April 22, and Earth month—as it’s widely recognized that bicycles are a great, eco-friendly way of commuting. The giveaway is also a nod to the pandemic-fueled bike boom (and shortage) that’s still underway. More people than ever are opting to ride their bike—in lieu of public transportation, for fitness, or for recreation. “During Earth Month, there is often a call to switch to transportation like riding your bike, but due to demand for bikes from COVID shutdowns (people wanting to be outside more), bike shortages will likely last until 2022,” a Panera representative told Bicycling. So in a way, the giveaway is Panera’s way of helping put bicycles into the hands of the bread-loving masses. Didn’t get a Panera bread bike? Here are some other beach cruisers we recommend UPRIGHT AND COMFORTABLE Brighton Cruiser 7 Brooklyn Bicycle $479.99 SHOP NOW Great for longer rides and running errands. BEST VALUE SINGLESPEED The Cruiser Bicycle Batch Bicycles $299.99 SHOP NOW Simple and super affordable. Best for Coastal LIving Priority Coast Priority $499.00 Buy Now Rust-proof parts are no match for salty sea air. Best Value E-Cruiser Tuesday August Live! Tuesday $1,199.00 Buy Now Speed up your laid-back life at 20 mph. Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io