Title: 9 Things I Wish I Had Known Before Riding Across the Country

Text: Tom Hood I don’t like to start small. I ran my first marathon before I’d ever signed up for a 5K. And before I decided to ride across the country for the first time, I’d never so much as taken an overnight bike camping trip, nor ridden my bike farther than 60 miles in a day. I had no idea what to worry about, what to pack, or what to expect beyond the general unexpected. But the weird thing is, my story is far from unique. Lots of cyclists feel the opposite coast calling and jump right into cross-country cycling before they’ve gotten their bike touring “sea legs.” And maybe that’s the right way to do it. After all, nothing can really prepare you for that first big bike journey, and all those little revelations along the way are the foundations of a true adventure. That said, I could have maybe done a little more preparation before I set out on a two-month trip across the country alone a few years back with little more than a phone card and a $15 tent. Here’s what surprised me on my first cross-country cycling tour—and what I wish I’d known before I left home. Bikepacking Packing Guide High-Capacity Hauler Gonex Upgrade Bicycle Panniers Gonex amazon.com Buy Now Keep your stuff protected from rain and puddles. Waterproof Pouch SealLine Blocker Dry Sack backcountry.com $16.95 Buy Now Available in three sizes: 2.5L, 5L, and 15L. If you have an extra strap or rope, attach it under your saddle. Racks Hold Your Bags Topeak Tetrarack M2 Rack, Rear - Mountain Topeak moosejaw.com $119.95 Buy Now If your bike doesn’t have bosses to attach racks, these ones just strap on. Available in road and mountain sizes, both front and rear. Kimberly’s Choice Road Runner Auto-Pilot Stem Bag roadrunnerbags.us $65.00 Buy Now Keep all your essentials—water, phone, chapstick, camera, snacks—accessible as you ride. Versatile Straps OneUp Components EDC Gear Straps OneUp Components amazon.com $21.26 Buy Now Attach a tent or more bags to your handlebar, or get even more creative. A good sleeping bag will make or break you. Out of everything I packed, my sleeping bag was where I wished I’d spent a little extra money. It was summer when I left the West Coast on my first cross-country bike tour, and I was a kid from Kansas. I imagined long days at peak humidity and sticky, mosquito-embattled nights. I had no idea how bitterly cold it could get at night at elevation—and how much time I would spend every morning unthawing my water bottles over a camp stove. In the mountains, my sleeping bag, a flat fold of polyester better suited to preteen slumber parties, was no warmer than sleeping in a paper bag. The minute I reached a town big enough to have an REI, I blew half my touring fund on a nice, lightweight mummy bag I still use to this day. And thanks to that purchase, I’m alive to tell the tale today instead of buried deep in a hypothermic tunnel in the Cascades. Bikepacking Sleep Systems Guide Cold-temps mummy bag Marmot Trestles Elite Eco 30 Marmot backcountry.com $157.95 SHOP NOW Our favorite lightweight and packable sleeping bag, rated for chilly nights down to 30 degrees F. Insulating Sleeping Pad Z Lite Sol Sleeping Pad Therm-a-Rest rei.com $45.95 SHOP NOW Lightweight, foam mat that accordian-folds up for easy packing. Quilt with Toebox Outdoor Vitals Down TopQuilt amazon.com Buy Now If don’t need a full sleeping bag, a quilt with a toebox will keep you plenty warm, and is lighter to carry. Light and Sturdy Tent Trail Hut 4 Tent REI Co-op rei.com $299.00 SHOP NOW Packs down small enough to take on a bike, plus it fits two people, so you can split the cost with your travel buddy. Hammock with Bug Net ENO Skylite Hammock eaglesnestoutfittersinc.com $169.95 Buy Now Sleep under the stars without mosquitos bites—best if you know you’ll be camping with lots of trees around to hang it from. Pack light—even lighter than you think. Extra clothes and/or cycling kit, full-sized tools, that harmonica you never learned to play—chances are, you won’t use half the stuff you thought you’d need in advance. The good news with cross-country cycling is you can always send extras home, mail yourself stuff to pick up further down the road (like cold- or warm-weather clothes), or have friends mail you things at post offices marked “General Delivery.” Before my first tour, I had no idea post offices even let you do that. I set out with all kinds of odds and ends I didn’t need, and had to hunt for other necessities along the road. But once I’d mastered the art of General Delivery, I had cookies and warm socks waiting for me in every port. Just make sure to find a small-town post office along the route and have your loved ones address mail there to your name, “care of general delivery.” (Smaller towns are less likely to misplace the package.) And make sure you’ll be passing through that town on a day the post office will be open. You can’t always trust the map. When you’re trying to travel light, it makes sense to carry very little food and plan to stop regularly at supermarkets and convenience stores along the way. But every once in awhile, I’d pull up at the only minimart or restaurant within a 50-mile radius and encounter a sign that read, “Closed on Sundays” or “Out of Business.” One of the first rules of the road of cross-country cycling I learned is to always prepare for services to be closed—even when relying on a new touring guide and not one that’s all weathered around the edges like an old-timey treasure map. I gambled so many times that the single store I needed for a restock would be open—(and lost)—that I learned to carry far more food than anyone could eat in 48 hours at all times. Hang your food, dummy. Do I really need to elaborate on this one? It only took me two or three hand-to-hand raccoon battles to learn this lesson, but it’s one that will stay with me for the rest of my life. Google “javelina” and tell me if that’s something you want to wrestle away from the last of your oatmeal supply in the middle of the night. Write down tips from other bike tourists. If you’re riding a well-worn touring route, you’ll probably encounter other bike tourists headed in the opposite direction. Chances are, they’ll want to stop and share some war stories from the road, and hear what you’ve seen in your travels, too. Often they’ve got tips about road detours, places to stay, and pitfalls to avoid. Write this stuff down! Five states later, when you get to that town they mentioned, you’re going to want to remember which campsite they warned you about and what the name of that vegetarian restaurant was. You’re also going to want to get their contact info and whether or not they’re keeping a blog so you can keep up with the rest of their journey after you part ways. People are overwhelmingly kind. So many friends and family members warned me that cross-country cycling would be dangerous that I started to wonder if they might be on to something. But ultimately what I discovered is that the vast majority of people—in both cities and the small-town, rural areas I spent the majority of my time passing through—were trusting, open-hearted, and kind. The hospitality I’ve experienced on bike tours from strangers has since been unparalleled. Families saw me on the roads and invited me to stay at their houses; elderly church-goers offered to make me food. Yes, even me—at the time, a tattooed gay kid with short, messy hair in a black hoodie covered with punk patches. I’m so glad I ventured outside my bubble long enough to learn that this country is made up of quirky, amazing characters worth connecting with and swapping stories. That said it doesn’t hurt to line up some hospitality in advance. Before I left, I wish I’d known about WarmShowers—a site that helps set up traveling bike tourists with potential hosts—or some of the other great avenues to finding free or low-cost lodging, like talking to other bike tourists in advance or getting tips from blogs. There are only so many weeks in a row you can sleep in a little one-person tent before the idea of having a real bed and a real shower with a real person to talk to becomes a luminous mirage on the horizon. By the time I embarked on my second long bike tour, I was looking for ways to sleep indoors as often as I could. Take fewer photos of the scenery and more of the people. You’ll want to remember all the oddball characters you met along the road. You’ll want to remember the things you saw, too, but that stuff is less fleeting than the faces of the folks who let you sleep in their spare room, or played pool with you all night in that country western bar on the edge of town.  Sure, it’s awkward to ask to take a virtual stranger’s photo, but 10 years after your trip is over, those will be the photos that mean the most. Trust me. Again, small towns are the best. When I first set out on my cross-country cycling trip, what I’d always labeled small towns were practically bustling metropolises compared to the zero-stoplight outposts I would spend most of my nights in while bike touring. But what those tiny villages lacked in city services they often made up for in convenience and hospitality. Lots of 200-person towns peppered across the Midwest not only allow free camping in the city park but also provide showers and other resources at the local pool or firehouse. And sometimes, even if a city doesn’t have that kind of program set up, you can negotiate a safe place to pitch your tent for free with the local sheriff—or sleep in the basement of a local church. It’s hard to imagine getting that kind of VIP treatment anywhere else.