Title: Bible Review: Revel Ranger

Text: The new Revel Ranger is as quick as it is capable, as fun as it is fast, and it’s downright stunning to look at. It’s Revel’s answer to the booming category of bikes perfectly suited for retiring cross-country racers, otherwise known as ‘down-country,’ the dumbest term to come out of mountain biking since ‘anti-rise.’ You know what anti-rise is? It’s brake-jacking. Yup, bike industry juggernauts took a bad thing and magically made it a good thing. Outstanding. Whatever we decide to call it (it’s going to be down-country isn’t it?) the bikes emerging in this category are fun as hell, and the Ranger is among the best of them to date. It inspired our most anti-Strava reviewers to test their mettle on the most torturous sections of the punishing test loop. None of the testers on hand are really the racing type these days, but like any true mountain biker, we’re all down for some good old fashioned masochism, and the Ranger had a way of luring that side of us out to come out and party. It sports 115 millimeters of rear-wheel travel, paired with 120 millimeters up front, and the build we chose came dressed with the new and very sporty-feeling RockShox SID Ultimate fork and SID Luxe shock, a setup that pairs nicely with this platform. Revel also offers a Fox Float DPS shock and 34 step-cast fork option as well, for riders looking for a slightly more supple setup or wanting to edge a touch farther into an overall trail bike feel. When configured with SID dampers, the Ranger is energetic. Heck, it bordered on impatient, reprimanding us anytime we weren’t pinning it. The Ranger does not support lazy riding, literally. When soft-pedaling up climbs, the Ranger’s CBF suspension platform bobbed more than testers expected or preferred. It wasn’t enough to qualify for what we sometimes like to call Saggy Butt Syndrome—the bike’s pedaling platform kicked in before it felt like it was sucking energy—but it was more active than, say, the Yeti SB115. However, the suspension had an overall less racey and more supple feel than the SB115, which plenty of folks might prefer. Plus, once we got off our lazy asses and put the power down, the Ranger hopped straight to attention. The harder you pedal it, the more efficient it becomes. But we couldn’t help but wonder how the bike might perform with a steeper seat angle. Positioning the rider’s weight farther forward can help reduce unwanted bobbing and prevent front-wheel wandering on steep climbs, and the Ranger’s relatively slack 75.3-degree seat tube angle is not on the cutting edge of current trends.