Title: Goose Island Beer Co. Bike Giveaway

Text: On March 12, local craft beer company Goose Island is sending its “shandy man” out on a mission to hide 50 giant lemons across the city of Chicago. (Yes, you read that right.) If you are lucky enough to find a lemon, you can exchange your citrus for a Goose Island-branded fixed-gear bike made by Solé Bicycles.  The lemon scavenger hunt is part of this year’s celebration of 312 Day, a local holiday created by the brewing company (also, Chicago’s area code is 312). You can see how many lemons are still unclaimed by going to its website—and hurry, because they are being found quickly! Goose Island Beer Co. “Growing up in the Midwest, we all understand how brutal the winter season can be. By the month of March, we all just want to seize any beautiful day,” Todd Ahsmann, president of Goose Island Beer Co., told Bicycling. “That’s why back in 2011, a small group of us at Goose started a made-up holiday (312 Day) as an excuse to get out and enjoy Chicago. By 2014, Chicago’s mayor declared it an official holiday.” The celebration also marks the release of the brewer’s new 312 Lemonade Shandy beer (hence the giant lemons). The beer style is symbolic, too, inspired by the saying “when life gives you lemons, make lemonade”—or in this case, lemonade shandy. “We like to celebrate big on 312 Day and this year is no exception with the launch of a first-ever beer style for Goose Island, 312 Lemonade Shandy,” Ahsmann said. “Last year was a sour ‘lemon’ of a year so we’re making lemonade and celebrating by dropping giant lemons around Chicago. It’s simple, you find a giant lemon, you win a sweet new bike.” Goose Island Beer Co. The company wouldn’t drop any hints on where to find the giant lemons, but it did confirm that they will all be hidden within city limits. For those who happen upon one and aren’t aware of the bike giveaway, the lemons will have a QR code that will provide instructions when scanned. To claim your bike prize, bring the lemon to the Goose Island Fulton Street Taproom at 1800 W. Fulton Street. The brewery will also have a 312 Lemonade Shandy stand set up with samples and the new beer on tap for $1, plus other 312 specials for $3.12. A concert featuring local bands will also be livestreamed. (Visitors should follow the appropriate COVID-19 safety requirements.) Goose Island Beer Co. We’re not sure how well you can actually hide a lemon of that size in a heavily-populated cityscape, but in the event that Chicagoans have trouble finding all 50 lemons, the scavenger hunt will continue into the weekend, and Goose Island will start sharing location clues on Instagram and Twitter by 9 p.m. on Friday. And lastly—if you find a giant lemon, unfortunately you won’t be able to keep it. But hey, a free bike and shandy are reward enough, right? If you don’t win a Goose Island fixie, here are 4 of our favorites Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io