Title: How to Be a Rider: Tracy Brown

Text: Eric Arce Tracy Brown, a telecom/network technician from Austin, Texas, shares what he thinks makes him a true rider. Check out the picks, then compare yourself with other cyclists in the polls to see where you stand with everybody else! This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Technology  Bikes have come a long way and will continue to go even further. I’m always stoked to see the tech. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Tubeless I’m an aggressive rider, and running tubeless gives me some extra confidence on the trail. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Climb Technical climbs with boulders and step-ups are probably my favorite part of mountain biking. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Unpaved Somehow riding unpaved roads feels a lot more adventurous to me than riding paved roads. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Food Stopping for tacos and beer midride is way better than taking in gels. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Scar Scars look cool, and a lot of times there are some good stories behind them. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Grit I’d rather have more grit than talent any day. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Sunrise I’m a morning person, so I usually try to meet the sun at the trailhead. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. His pick: Color Having a cool-looking bike is more important to me than saving a few grams.