Title: Don't Take Riding Too Seriously

Text: Katie Burrell is not here for your serious rides. “Ugh, I think my fork is stuck. My fork’s stuck!” she yelled in a recent Instagram video of her mountain biking, as she fails to make it up a steep switchback. She’s being facetious, of course, though there’s an element of realness to her ridiculously blaming her bike for the mishap. → You love cycling. We love cycling. Come join us! Burrell currently resides in Revelstoke, British Columbia, a mecca for both skiing and mountain biking. She’s built a career as a comedian and “professional leisure athlete” in the ski industry with her irreverent takes on ski culture, as seen in her 2019 film “Dream Job” where she plays the role of a wannabe pro skier who’s compensating for her lack of skill with an endless list of excuses and an inflated ego. Her latest mountain biking video, posted to Instagram on April 1, applies that same humor, and the result is both hilarious and, at times, a little too relatable. Her biking videos are casually filmed during rides on an iPhone and thrown together—“It’s a joke,” Burrell told Bicycling—but they’re nonetheless effective. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. There are layers to Burrell’s comedy. It’s relatable to most riders, especially beginners, who understand the humbling struggle of learning to mountain bike and building fitness. And it pokes fun at the more serious or experienced riders who talk tech and throw around fancy bike lingo. “All of my friends are like professional athletes, which is seriously demoralizing at times,” she said.  Then there’s social commentary woven throughout, deriding the “male-ego dominated” culture that’s pervasive in both mountain biking and skiing. “There’s obviously a kind of fragile ego in both sports,” Burrell said. “There’s quite a bit of showmanship, there’s quite a bit of cool guy factor.” This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Even the dating scene in Revelstoke isn’t spared, where Burrell says “every single date here is a bike ride.” She has a video along those lines too, where she plays the overly disgruntled girlfriend of a mountain biker. Burrell has also made fun of social media influencers, mountain bikers included, in a series of short videos. “Vulnerability and insecurity are actually quite funny,” Burrell said. “I just think ego across the board is a pretty funny and safe place to tackle with comedy because it’s pretty universal.” In the end, it’s a good (and thoroughly entertaining) reminder not to take ourselves too seriously while riding, regardless of skill level. Or as Burrell puts it: “Chill, it’s a fucking bicycle.” Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io