Title: Schwinn Partners With Good Company Bike Club to Promote Diversity

Text: On February 16, Schwinn announced that it has partnered with Good Company Bike Club (also known as Good Co.) to help foster greater diversity on two wheels and to “celebrate and accelerate Black culture in cycling.”  Good Co., which was founded by Andrew Bennett in June of last year, began as a simple group ride amongst friends in Bennett’s home of Brooklyn, New York. It was a way to connect with others during the coronavirus pandemic, and “to instill a sense of normalcy,” as the organization’s website describes. → Sign up for Bicycling All Access and get the latest tips and advice to help you become a better cyclist “Good Co., short for Good Company, is a social club first. We also happen to cycle, which has been a passion of mine for over 20 years,” Bennett said, according to Schwinn’s press release. “Through our community, which includes both novice and more experienced cyclists alike, we hope to provide a safe, positive, fun, and inclusive environment, encouraging riders of all levels and diverse backgrounds to join in. We’re proud to have created a lane for our community to unapologetically ride together and enjoy all New York City has to offer. And we are looking forward to the generous support from Schwinn to amplify this message to our community of riders.” Along with group rides, Good Co. offers a variety of social events and workshops, often highlighting Black-owned businesses, with some open to the community and others for members only. (They even sponsored an event encouraging people to fill out the census last year.) A club membership, through Patreon, is $14.99 a month, which covers the costs of exclusive events, members-only chats on Discord, and more. Together, Schwinn and Good Co. will be sponsoring a number of group rides in the coming year. Right now, there are rides planned for Bike Month Kick Off on May 1, the Good Co. Bike Club Anniversary Ride on June 5, Juneteenth (commemorating the end of slavery in the U.S.) on June 19, and the We Bike Too ride on August 8. According to a company representative, in addition to financial support through the end of this year, other support from Schwinn has come in the form of donated bikes: a Fastback Carbon 105 for each of the club’s four ride leaders and another to be used in a giveaway. One of the first partnership events will take place February 25, at 8p.m. eastern, in the form of an Instagram Live workshop through @goodcobikeclub about how to fix a flat tire. Jessica Coulon Assistant Digital Editor When she’s not out riding her mountain bike, Jessica reports on news, gear, and all things cycling related for Bicycling. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io