Title: 2021 RockShox DebonAir Updates

Text: Following up on the roll-out of the all-new SID, RockShox has a smaller, but very notable update to its Pike, Lyrik, Revelation, and Yari forks. This update affects the air spring. It changes the spring rate in the initial part of the travel to provide a bit more support, so the fork rides higher in its travel. It’s a small update, but according to RockShox product manager Jon Cancellier, it provides, “That little bit of confidence. That little bit of extra security as you’re riding into something rough. You know your fork is going to stay high, it has plenty of travel available to you when you need it.” You can upgrade many earlier DebonAir forks with a new spring kit (top), or just the seal head and foot nut (bottom). matt phillips DebonAir forks have a self-equalizing air spring. At a specific point in the fork’s travel, the air piston passes by a dimple in the upper tube that opens a pathway between the positive and negative air chambers, allowing the pressure in the two chambers to equalize. Previously, that equalization point was a few millimeters into the fork's travel. The 2021 update moves that point up so the chambers equalize when the fork is at rest. In addition to moving the equalization point, there's also a small reduction in the spring's positive air volume, and an increase in the volume of air captured in the spring side’s lower-leg. A 2020 and 2021 Lyrik air spring. courtesy According to Cancellier, there's no affect on small bump compliance as it is, “Still all based on positive/negative air volumes.” Cancellier also stressed that he feels the fork isn't firmer in the initial part of the travel, but rather, "More accurate. We have better control of the spring rate from full top out now versus before.” This change doesn’t alter your sag settings—if you ran 20-percent sag before, you still do. The backstory on this change is RockShox found that many riders were running higher than recommended air pressures to improve initial support. While this had the desired effect, it also made it harder to use a fork’s full travel. It also clears up another issue, “With previous generation air springs, there would have been a small but noticeable downwards spike in the spring curve where the air changes across the dimple,” the company said. Moving the equalization point to the top of the forks’ travel eliminates this mid-travel spike. You can’t see the new stuff, but it’s in there. Matt Phillips I’ve been on a 150mm Pike Ultimate with the revised spring for a few weeks now. The change is subtle, and not enough to make a 2021 Pike feel like a completely different fork than a 2020 Pike. The revised spring feels firmer and a touch less compliant, but not less sensitive or harsher. I’d characterize it as more sporty, less luxe. I also think the revised spring gives the fork a slightly more poppy feel. This update applies to all 2021 Pike, Lyrik, Yari, and Revelation forks with DebonAir. If you’re not in the market for a 2021 fork, you can upgrade many RockShox forks from previous model years to the new spring. RockShox offers two kits: a complete air spring assembly ($42), and a seal head and foot nut kit ($25). Upgrading an existing fork requires dropping the lowers, but is a relatively simple job. Well, simple compared to a lot of suspension work anyway. If you decide to take a swing at it, make sure you have lower-leg bath oil and seal grease at the ready. The Pike gets the new spring, as well as the Lyrik, Yari, and Revelation. Matt Phillips Matt Phillips Senior Test Editor, Bicycling Matt has been testing bikes and all forms of cycling gear since 1995. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io