Title: Bible Review: YT Izzo

Text: YT’s newest model may require some explanation. Even though it’s the quickest, ‘raciest’ model YT has produced, the Izzo is decidedly not an XC bike. And even though the XC-style remote shock lockout or lightweight carbon wheels may trick some into thinking this could fit into the emerging XC-plus category, it does not. According to YT, the Izzo is a trail bike. Which is a bit confusing, not just because beefed-up XC bikes are all the rage right now, but also because YT already makes a trail bike: the Jeffsy. Or at least that’s what we thought. It turns out, according to YT’s website, the Jeffsy is, in fact, an all-mountain bike, a category the rest of the mountain bike industry has apparently forgotten about. So, if we consider the Jeffsy to excel at all mountains, then that would mean that the Izzo dominates some of them, right? Yes, the smaller ones. The Izzo is basically a mini Jeffsy. But not that mini. Of the four 29ers we tested in Marin County, the YT Izzo had the longest legs. With 130 millimeters of rear-wheel travel—10 more than the next closest in this grouping—it was no surprise, then, to find YT’s newest model excelling on the rowdier parts of our test course. There was a part where one of the highest-speed sections of the loop spits you directly into an onslaught of sharp rocks, baby heads, and wheel-sucking tech. All of the bikes went in fast, but the Izzo was among just a couple that could comfortably maintain speed through the gauntlet. This is despite the fact that the Izzo clearly had the least-sophisticated, least-dialed suspension system in the group. Don’t get us wrong, the suspension performance is respectable, it just isn’t as nuanced and flashy as the other systems in the Marin Bible mini-fleet. Evil, Revel, Ibis, and Santa Cruz/Juliana all have YT beat when it comes to natural pedaling performance. In other words, the Izzo really needs that remote lockout to have a chance of keeping up with other trail bikes like The Following, 5010, or Mojo. Testers found that without the crutch of the lockout, the Izzo would display too much energy-sapping suspension activity. The steeper the terrain, the more we’d want to lock it out.