Title: Chris Bohjalian Can Read for Hours in the Bath

Text: I write best when I’m reading novels that give me an inferiority complex. When I was reading Ayad Akhtar’s “Homeland Elegies,” for instance, I’d be at my desk the next morning and try to begin the day writing one sentence with two words as interesting as his pairing “orphic concordances.” I also read lots of nonfiction that will help me bring a scene to life. I never have writer’s block, but when a novel is stalling, it’s usually because I haven’t done my homework and need to dig deeper into the research. Your new novel anticipates the start of the Salem witch hysteria a few decades later. What other books would you recommend to people interested in the subject? Begin with poetry by Anne Bradstreet. You won’t find witches, but you will find poems that celebrate her love for her husband and the natural world, as well as one that mourns the loss of her library in a fire and another that expressed her desperate pain at the death of a grandchild. You will find spiritual doubt. They’re beautiful, and they remind us that the Puritans’ internal lives were as complex as ours. There are plenty of fascinating books about witchcraft in history and about Salem in particular, but the one I like best is “The Devil in the Shape of a Woman,” by Carol F. Karlsen. Bonus points for the title alone. Has a book ever brought you closer to another person, or come between you? When I finished Howard Frank Mosher’s “A Stranger in the Kingdom” as a young man, I was so moved that I wrote him. He wrote back, one of his classic, handwritten letters penned in blue ink on lined, yellow paper. We’d be friends until he died. I dedicated one of my novels to him. What’s the most interesting thing you learned from a book recently? From Sy Montgomery’s lovely “The Soul of an Octopus”: An octopus would make a terrible pet, but not because they’re dangerous. Rather, they’re playful and smart and usually gentle with humans, but they’re likely to get themselves into trouble slithering out of their tank. After reading her book, I went to the New England Aquarium just to watch them. What moves you most in a work of literature?