Title: When Someone Says ‘Everything Is Fine,’ It Usually Isn’t

Text: In the Granata home, things had not been fine for a very long time. Both parents were trained as emergency room doctors, but even they were stymied — trapped — by the horror-show suite of nonchoices schizophrenia presents. Sufferers can’t perceive how sick they are, nor can they be hospitalized against their will, unless they present a danger to themselves or others. So many don’t seek help, and absent a trip to the E.R. or a 911 call, loved ones have no way to obtain it for them. Tim’s brutality was unusual, but otherwise his illness ran a typical course. He had threatened suicide a number of times, leading to a brief hospital stay. Medication seemed to stabilize him, but when he was sent home he flushed the pills down the toilet. Image The lines between suicide and homicide blurred in Tim’s mind. The author was 4 when his parents brought his triplet siblings home to this very same house. In an atmosphere as obsessed with success as Orange — a suburb of New Haven, it has a very specific, white, Ivy League-oriented culture — failure and human fragility are taboo. What combination of shame and loyalty must all the Granatas have felt about this brother and son, disintegrating before their eyes? The family’s love and mortification are evident between the lines of this book, but remain insufficiently explored. By the time of the killing Tim had withdrawn from college. Their mother, Claudia, collected books about coping with schizophrenia, and hid them under her bed. Even Tim did his part to fulfill the family expectations, right up until he picked up the sledgehammers. Some hours after his dark warning, he’d stood at the kitchen counter eating a banana, offering his mother reassurance. “T said ‘things are going to be fine,’” Claudia texted her husband. “He ate fruit?! No mention of what he said b4.” In her final moments, a mother yearned for a sign of normalcy — matricidal sons don’t eat bananas, do they? And yet, the question mark indicated that she wasn’t so sure. It was the last message she’d ever send. Unfortunately, this memoir hews to the family myth even as it seeks to expose it. In therapy, after the fact, Granata comes to realize that he is “a people pleaser,” and this is the problem. The author can’t bring himself to subject his family to the dissection that the story requires; despite his decision to write about them, his impulse is still to protect them. His father and brother Chris are largely absent from its pages, their silence implying, perhaps, their disapproval. His sister, Lizzie, is present, but her portrayal is qualified: Her brother dares not speak for her. And yet, this is what memoirists do. They push and probe, complicate answers, reinfect old wounds. They presume to know what others are thinking and feeling, and then turn the interrogation lamp on their most intimate, protected places. Most disappointing here is the absence of Claudia herself, a woman in her full maturity, a doctor, a math teacher, a mother of four. How deeply she must have struggled to devote herself to Tim, while also protecting herself and the others from his chaos. Did she confess her stress to friends? Did she fight with her spouse about how best to navigate the terrible thicket of options available to them, the financial and emotional costs, the reputational toll? Telling this story is an act of bravery, but Granata needed to linger more in the painful places; he reaches for his love for his brother, but he also needed to hold his mother’s heart in his hands. “There are ways my mother failed,” he writes, and then, conceding how difficult this admission is for him, runs from the sentence as if it were a grenade.