Title: Ethereum DeFi Lending Platforms Print Record High of $25,000,000,000 in Total Value Locked

Text: Market analytics toolkit Messari is reporting that the top Ethereum-based decentralized lending platforms have hit a massive milestone in the first quarter of 2021. Messari revealed the news in a tweet this week, highlighting the progress made by decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms Aave, Compound (COMP) and MakerDAO (MKR). “The lending sector went parabolic during the first quarter of 2021. DeFi’s most popular lending platforms reached $25 billion, the highest the sector has ever seen, including Aave, Compound, and MakerDAO.” The analytics platform also notes that the value of outstanding loans in the sector has also reached an all-time high with Compound, MakerDAO and Aave capturing the lion’s share of the market. ADVERTISEMENT “The number of outstanding loans reached ATH of ~ $10 billion across Aave, Compound, and MakerDAO. Compound captured 53% of the market, MakerDAO 30% of market and Aave at 17% of market.“ Ethereum blockchain monitor DeFi Pulse shows that the total value locked (TVL) in DeFi platforms across the blockchain currently stands at around $55 billion, down roughly 11% from an all-time high of about $62 billion locked on April 15th. Although the total USD value locked in DeFi is down, the total number of ETH locked in Ethereum-based DeFi projects is hovering around all-time highs with approximately 10.74 million ETH deposited. Of the other DeFi-related platforms built on Ethereum, decentralized exchange (DEX) Uniswap (UNI) holds nearly $6 billion locked, Curve Finance (CRV) has $5.32 billion and SushiSwap (DEX) $3.87 billion, all according to DeFi Pulse. Don't Miss a Beat – Subscribe to get crypto email alerts delivered directly to your inbox Follow us on Twitter Facebook and Telegram ADVERTISEMENT Check Latest News Headlines ADVERTISEMENT Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing. Featured Image: Shutterstock/Tithi Luadthong