Title: Citroen C5 Aircross review – exactly like a Porsche 911 GT3, sort of

Text: The Citroën C5 Aircross is as focused a vehicle as the Porsche 911 GT3. That made you look, didn’t it? But we stand by this statement, as where the GT3’s focus on ultimate performance and driver interaction is enough to get any enthusiast a little hot under the collar, the new C5 Aircross has the same intense focus – just aimed in a rather different direction. You might think the C5 Aircross is just another SUV, and you’d be right, but it appears that there are an awful lot of people buying them so it would seem foolish for Citroën not to react. But the C5 Aircross’s unabashed focus on comfort and practicality, rather than aimlessly recycling synonyms for ‘dynamic’ or ‘sporty’, is refreshing in itself. > Click here for our more interesting review of the Porsche 911 GT3 . 14 The new C5 Aircross uses a combination of the usual PSA Group elements, including the same EMP2 platform that underpins the 3008 and new 508, and PSA’s impressive engine range that boasts a certain flair that’s missing from other SUVs in the class. Priced from £23,225, the C5 Aircross seems like good value too, but is it a good car? Engine, performance and 0-60 time The engine range is made up of a combination of three- and four-cylinder turbocharged petrol and diesels. Available in either 128 or 177bhp forms of both petrol and diesel models, excessive power is not the name of the game here, but all engines seem to fulfil the brief without too much trouble. Back in the UK, the main part of the C5 Aircross’s technical armour is the fitment of the same hydraulic bump stop technology as found in the new C4 Cactus. The idea is to slip a second dampener between the spring and its solid bump stop, allowing engineers to raise the spring rate without worry of crashing into them. You can’t so much feel them in action, rather just marvel at the C5’s ability to smother rutted and rough tarmac with as much finesse as something much larger. Despite the C5 Aircross’s substantial size, weight is surprisingly low(ish) at 1440kg – a positive side effect of the EMP2 platform and its simple torsion beam rear suspension. Citroën will be launching a plug-in hybrid variant of the Aircross in early 2020, sharing its hardware with incoming Peugeot plug-in models too. What’s it like to drive? It can’t be said enough: this is no sports car, sporting SUV or ‘dynamic exploration vehicle’, but a comfy, distinctive and clever family car. The ride quality does indeed live up to this comfort bias, smothering rough and uneven road surfaces with impressive isolation. Speed up and road undulations can catch the body off guard, but it’s never wayward, and it gathers itself back up. There are little-to-no secondary body movements after the initial impact – usually a sign of impressive damper calibration.