Title: Next-generation Nissan Z revealed in patent images

Text: Following last year’s reveal of the Nissan Z Proto concept, patent images of the final production car have surfaced online. The new generation sports coupe follows the 370Z some 11 years after its 2009 reveal, but with a rather more serious drivetrain and retro overtones. Though details of the production powertrain are still to come, the patent renders suggest that the final production car will be near-identical to the concept we’ve already seen. Aside from adjustment of the front splitter, front grille and the addition of a fuel filler cap on the left rear wing, there are no changes to be found – even the door handle design has remained the same. > Production-spec Nissan GT-R50 by Italdesign revealed There is a pretty big catch with the new Nissan Z car, however: it’s not coming to Europe. As announced by Nissan Europe last September, ‘The Nissan Z Proto is an homage to Nissan’s sports car heritage, passion and innovation, updated for the modern age. However, a shrinking European sports cars market and specific regulations on emissions mean that Nissan was unable to build a viable business case for the introduction of the production version of the next generation Z-car in Europe. In Europe, Nissan’s priorities remain on its commitment to renew its crossover line-up and accelerate its range electrification strategy.’ So at the risk of teasing details about a car we won’t be able to buy in the UK anyway, this is what we’re missing. To start with, the new Nissan Z shares its two-seater two-door configuration with many of its predecessors. At 4382mm long the Z Proto concept is 142mm longer than the 370Z, and almost bang-on the same length as a Toyota Supra. At 1850mm wide and 1310mm tall it is a little narrower and taller than the Toyota, but has a similar tyre footprint on the road with a combination of 255/40 R19 front and 285/35 R19 rear rubber (the same as the Supra at the front, and plus 10mm at the rear). 40 A twin-turbocharged V6 will power the next Z, an engine that we suspect will be a version of the VR30DDTT unit that powers high-specification variants of the Infiniti Q50 and Japanese-market Nissan Skyline. Power figures have not been released, but in those applications the power unit is rated at 394bhp, a figure we suspect won’t be far off that available in the Z. This puts it quite significantly higher than EU-specification Supras, which produce 335bhp from their BMW-derived B58 unit, although in other markets, including Japan and the US, the Toyota is rated at 382bhp, which gives the Nissan a higher figure to aim for.