Title: TechArt Porsche 911 Turbo S has more power than a GT2 RS

Text: The Porsche 911 Turbo could rarely be considered short on power, with enough straight-line performance to upset considerably more serious and expensive machinery. Yet despite its already physics-defying performance, TechArt has felt the need to take it one step further, increasing performance and fettling the aero of the latest iteration. A new aerodynamics kit replaces a number of factory components with TechArt’s own components. The kit includes a brand new front splitter and intake surrounds, new carbonfibre wing mirrors and redesigned side skirts, while the rear features a new high-mounted roof spoiler that directs air towards the enlarged rear wing. There’s also a new diffuser, exhaust surrounds and TechArt badging replacing the factory Porsche logo. > TechArt reveals 770bhp Porsche 911 Turbo-based GTstreet RS TechArt’s modifications under the skin include its ‘Techtronic’ ECU module, increasing power from the twin-turbocharged 3.8-litre flat-six to 700bhp and 663lb ft of torque – more power than a GT2 RS. 0-62mph is claimed to be a tenth down than from factory at 2.6sec, with top speed remaining at 205mph. These changes all work with Porsche’s standard drive modes, each altering the engine mapping and the valved sports exhaust system there to alter the Turbo’s powertrain characteristics. A set of forged, centre-lock 20/21-inch wheels are also on the menu, which are both lighter and stronger than the factory items. As is usually the case with TechArt’s mods, all wheel options from the brand are available in a number of wild colours and finishes, wrapped in Michelin Cup 2 tyres. TechArt’s also fitted new coilover springs which reduce ride height by up to 40mm, with a valved sports exhaust system there to let that flat-six breathe more freely. Customisation is high on the agenda. Various exterior components can be specified in body colour, matte or gloss carbon fibre, and the cabin can be completely reupholstered in any material the buyer desires. As standard, the tuner fits custom illuminated sill plates.