Title: Maserati Ghibli Ermenegildo Zegna: Paris motor show 2014

Text: Maserati has devoted plenty of attention to its high-end sports cars and historical models in its Centennial year, but a new special edition Ghibli model shows the firm hasn't forgotten its entry-level car in 2014's celebrations. Launched at the Paris motor show, the Maserati Ghibli Ermenegildo Zegna Edition has been developed in conjunction with the Italian luxury fashion house and targets, in Maserati's words, 'precious detail lovers'. The car also shows off some details that may filter down to regular models in the Ghibli range. Zegna-themed detailing begins with a special tri-coat paint finish dubbed Azzuro Astro. The shade, designed to enhance the Ghibli's lines, takes on ash grey and blue tones depending on the angle of the light, and features a transparent top coat to add depth. A set of 20in alloy wheels - featuring their own unique 'liquid metal' paint finish - completes the subtle exterior changes. Befitting Zegna's expertise, most of the special edition's changes can be found inside. The interior features a duo-tone finish, split between leather tones and anthracite silk. Silk, a Zegna speciality, is used across the seat squabs and on the door panels. Natural-colour leather is used on harder-wearing areas of the seats, across the dashboard and along the centre console and arm rests. Carbonfibre inserts also feature, particularly along the centre tunnel where a 'Ermenegildo Zegna Edition' plate gives clues as to the interior's inspiration. Mechanical changes are notable by their absence, and Maserati has removed choice from buyers' engine options - a 404bhp twin-turbocharged V6 is the only unit available. 0-62mph takes 4.8 seconds, while customers unhindered by speed limits can top 176mph in the special edition Ghibli. Just 100 units will be made, one of which will appear on Maserati's motor show stand alongside two other Ghiblis - another S Q4 and a diesel - a Quattroporte GTS, two Centennial edition GranTurimos and the Alfieri concept.