Title: Ford Cortina Mk1 by Retro Ford review

Text: This is not a restomod, a backdated modern or an icon reimagined. Nor is it a regular Mk1 Cortina that’s been restored to within an inch of its life and is now claiming to be an example of its more famous Norfolk-educated brother in order to massage its provenance and improve its result at auction. No, this is a run-of-the-mill 1960s Ford Cortina that’s been rebuilt with what feels like the evo reader very much in mind. Engineered by Retro Ford, this demo car showcases the Corby-based firm’s complete 2-litre Zetec conversion kit. Replacing the original Kent engine, in basic tune it produces in the region of 170bhp, which is around 100bhp more than the car would have as standard, and it costs £4351. Included in the price is a new Zetec engine and everything required to convert it for use in a longitudinal configuration with rear-wheel drive, rather than the transverse front-wheel-drive layout for which it was designed. So there’s a new sump, water pump, engine mounts, flywheel and clutch assembly, exhaust manifold, starter motor, ignition system, some outrageous individual throttle bodies and an ECU to control it all. Retro Ford also recommends you use a more substantial gearbox, which means you’ll need a further £300 to buy a ’box from a dead MX-5 and an additional £1075 for the fitting kit. An upgraded, larger-capacity aluminium radiator is also available for £294. This particular car has had a few more modifications made to its Zetec engine, too. There are more aggressive cams and lighter pistons allowing it to rev higher, which has resulted in a claimed power output of 255bhp (on par with a Caterham Seven CSR). It’s also finished to a drag-racing specification, in that it only has one seat and very little else inside in a bid to keep weight to a minimum – it tips the scales at comfortably under the standard car’s 787kg – while the differential is a permanently locked item (a spool diff). Together these help this Cortina cover the quarter-mile in 11.9sec – just 0.1sec slower than we’ve recorded in a 542bhp Porsche Panamera Turbo (evo 237). A 255bhp 2-litre Zetec is more engine than a Mk1 Cortina needs: the smallest of throttle openings at low revs sparks rampant acceleration. But, crucially, it isn’t more engine than the car can cope with. Its acceleration may be immediate and savage but there’s not a hint of fragility about the car. In fact it encourages you to grab it by the scruff and take advantage of its slick-shifting ’box and new-found performance. 5 But more so than its performance it’s the soundtrack that draws you in: the air rushing through the 48mm-choke throttle bodies, the gurgle under load at low revs, the rasp from the exhaust and the deep bark as the throttles open wider and the crank heads for 7000rpm. It’s a magnificent sound, totally unapologetic about the decibels being generated and the greatest antidote to today’s anodyne turbocharged motors.