Title: The GTO Engineering Squalo is a sub-1000kg Ferrari 250 SWB recreation

Text: Details on output and target weight will be revealed next month, but GTO Engineering has also been working on refining the quad-cam V12, bringing it up to a production specification. Since February it has fettled the design in order to reduce weight, while improving aesthetics by removing the carburettor surrounds for an unobstructed view of those trumpets. Mark Lyon, GTO Engineering Managing Director and Founder, said: ‘It’s often the small parts of a car that take the longest time. We’re now at a stage where the design models are being created here in the UK and soon we will announce our technical partners working with us on the exterior manufacturing and interiors, as well as wheels and tyres.’ Following the last development update in February, GTO Engineering has now left behind the ‘Moderna’ code name for ‘Squalo’, Italian for shark. New renders have also given us a better look at the final exterior design, with elements such as the door handles, wing mirrors and bespoke 18-inch wheels tweaked. Berkshire-based Ferrari specialist GTO Engineering revealed its latest project late last year, a new-build sports car in the mould of Ferrari’s iconic 250 SWB. While it’s becoming more common to see this type of reimagined classic, few companies have as much experience in the restoration of Ferraris as GTO Engineering. Though first deliveries aren’t due until 2023, the firm has now unveiled its final design alongside an official name. Instead of being derived from an original (and very valuable) chassis, each Squalo will instead feature a hybrid chassis comprising a tubular steel passenger cell with aluminium subframes to hold the powertrain and suspension at either end. Unlike the 250 SWB of the 1960s, the subframes will support modern independent suspension, as well as bigger brakes, wheels and tyres. The body will be of carbonfibre, which will not only act as a structural part of the chassis but will also translate the soft curves and expertly formed surfacing in a medium that’s very different to the original’s sheet aluminium. The doors and bonnet will keep their aluminium construction though, a decision made to retain the same ‘feel’ as the original. While the body is ostensibly modern by construction, the car’s quad-cam V12 will find itself more closely aligned to the engine found in the original 250 SWB. The unit is of GTO’s own development, and built to the specification of the iconic Colombo V12 used by Ferrari between 1947 and 1988. While it doesn’t feature any original Ferrari parts, this ‘new’ engine has been developed with GTO Engineering’s extensive experience in rebuilding and tuning originals. No specific outputs have yet been revealed, but with GTO’s ability to build a remanufactured ‘Colombo’ V12 between early road car specification and full-bore competition-spec, it will be the customer’s choice whether the engine in their car will be biased for tractable road use or for ultimate performance. GTO Engineering has announced that it will target a sub-1000kg weight figure for its car, which is on par with the original’s circa 950kg kerb weight. While the overall design will find a majority of its basis in the original 250 SWB, the Squalo will feature a few nods to contemporary design, including new lighting, new exhaust outlets and subtle updates to the grille shape and detailing. Order books are now officially open, but availability and pricing are yet to be determined. We’d suggest that given the nature of the build, the Squalo will be neither common nor inexpensive. Still, as with many reimagined classics at this level, compared to an original it could be considered a bargain. First deliveries will take place in 2023.