Title: UK-based Theon Design builds its own 964 Porsche 911 restomod

Text: Theon Design, a new UK-based design company that specialises in the restoration and modification of heritage Porsche 911s, has revealed its third bespoke commission. This ‘greatest hits’ rebuild started life as a 964, and has more than a few subtle nods to some other famous reimagined 911s. Dubbed HK002, this Theon Design 911 has undergone a complete overhaul, with its donor 964 chassis stripped down to the bare steel and rebuilt with a range of updates inspired from different 911 models from across the years. The nose is based on an early long-nose 911, but the wider arches front and rear instead find their inspiration in later G-series models. While the body itself is digitally scanned and rebuilt in CAD, the bespoke metalwork is actually constructed of beaten aluminium. > Previously unseen Porsche concepts revealed Add-on body components like the bumpers and rear wing are constructed from carbonfibre, while the bespoke wheels and mirrors are both milled from billet aluminium, the former forged. While the body is marginally larger than standard, it’s lightweight construction makes the Theon 911 weigh in at 1248kg with fluids and a full tank – quite substantially less than a standard 964. Under the bodywork sits a naturally aspirated 3.8-litre flat-six engine producing 371bhp, with 300lb ft of torque. The engine is far from a factory carry-over, with individual throttle bodies, ported heads, Mahle barrels and pistons, Carrillo conrods and custom camshafts. While this example has taken the naturally aspirated path, Theon Design will be more than happy to fit any variety of Porsche power units to its commissions, whether that be turbocharged, small capacity or large. The transmission is a reconditioned G50 six-speed manual borrowed from a 993, while the suspension all-round is from KW, with manually adjustable coilovers at all four corners. The interior has also been comprehensively updated, with bespoke leather trim on the Recaros and dash, bespoke carbonfibre on the dash, door cards and centre tunnel, plus that lovely Nardi steering wheel. Part of Theon Design’s mantra when producing its 911s is not to lose out on modern creature comforts, so elements like modern heating and ventilation, modern infotainment systems, phone connection and a reversing camera have all discreetly been integrated into the cabin without being immediately visible. While a restomod 911 with quasi-retro styling and a 964 skeleton is nothing unusual, Theon Design’s inherently design-led process does give it an interesting counterpoint to some other companies doing a similar job. Theon Design has different priorities and expertise underpinning the conversion, making this object-oriented, rather than something more driver-focused like something you’ll find out of Sharkwerks or Tuthill. No specific pricing has been revealed for HK002, but Theon Design 911 pricing kicks off at £300,000 as a starting point, with the price expanding depending on customer specification.