Title: Toyota Supra 2.0 2021 review – a tempting 718 Cayman alternative?

Text: It’s fair to say that the fifth generation Supra, launched over a year ago now, didn’t instantly achieve icon status. It kept the classic layout of a straight-six up front and rear-wheel drive, but with underpinnings borrowed largely from the BMW Z4 it was always going to be a challenge to make it dynamically compelling. Still, there were few complaints about the 335bhp, turbocharged BMW straight-six which gave it generous performance and a dollop of class. Now there’s a version powered by a turbocharged, four-cylinder engine – the first in Supra history – and it has the potential to be better, as well as less expensive, because it weighs 100kg less. And crucially most of that weight comes off the front axle, improving the Supra’s weight distribution to the sought-after 50:50 ideal. Engine, gearbox and 0-60mph time The 1998cc BMW in-line four may be a whole litre and two cylinders down on the straight-six but it’s still a punchy engine. It makes 254bhp and 295lb ft versus the six’s 335bhp and 368lb ft, but those figures are accentuated by the lower kerb weight, of course, and it offers peak torque across a broad rev band – from 1550 to 4000rpm. There’s no manual gearbox option here either, and drive is sent to the rear wheels via the ZF 8HP eight-speed automatic gearbox. Toyota’s 0-62mph figures put the gap between the two at almost a second, the four-cylinder taking 5.2sec, the six takes 4.3sec. Both are limited to 155mph. Technical highlights Beneath its muscular coupe body, the Supra’s floorpan and suspension are BMW-sourced, which means MacPherson struts at the front with electrically-assisted power steering, and a five-link rear axle. Spring and damper rates are tweaked to suit the four-cylinder version’s lower mass and altered distribution, and it gets the same adaptive elements as the straight-six model, including switchable damping and an electronically controlled limited slip differential to assist and manage traction. The major divergence – and the only obvious visual differentiator ­– is the fitment of 18-inch, rather than 19-inch alloys, shod with taller sidewalled tyres of the same width: 255 section at the front and 275 at the rear. What’s it like to drive? Push the start button and the sound that filters through the bulkhead isn’t the smooth burr of the straight-six, but neither is it the monotone bark of an in-line four. This is thanks to sound augmentation via the speakers, disguising the engine’s expected voice and creating a rather ambiguous note. There’s plenty of low-rev pick up and the engine revs through to the redline smoothly and in a very refined way. It’s quick enough to feel sporty and the auto box is slick.