Title: Porsche Panamera Turbo S 2020 review

Text: Whether on the back of a 911 or affixed to Porsche’s electric Taycan, the Turbo S badge is Porsche shorthand for maximum straight-line performance. It’s the Panamera range-topper too, and comes with supercar-baiting pace and long-distance comfort rolled into one. With a 7:29sec Nürburgring time though, there may be more to the new Panamera Turbo S than big power alone. Engine, transmission and 0-60 time The Turbo S packs a twin-turbocharged four-litre V8 under its bonnet, making 621bhp, and 605lb ft of torque between 2300-4500rpm. For reference, those figures are 148bhp and 148lb ft healthier than the Panamera GTS with the same displacement, while the 6000rpm power peak is 500rpm lower, indicating a motor aimed more at pure grunt than high revs. With an eight-speed PDK and all-wheel drive there’s enough traction to handle that grunt too, which is why the Turbo S takes 3.1 seconds to reach 62mph (2.9 to 60mph) from rest, and only stops accelerating a couple of mph short of 200. You might note that there’s no longer an e-hybrid affix attached to the end of the Panamera Turbo S’s name any more, and that’s because this is no longer a hybrid, but has a purely combustion powertrain. > New Porsche Taycan review - Stuttgart puts its stamp on the electric car era Technical highlights As we’ve come to expect from the Panamera, and indeed most super-saloons at this level in the market, the Turbo S is lugging around more than two tons of weight – 2135kg to be precise, or 95kg more than a Panamera GTS. In an effort to hide it the Turbo S gets all-wheel steering, plus PASM for its three-chamber air suspension, active anti-roll as part of the PDCC Sport system, and PTV Plus – Porsche’s torque-vectoring system that varies torque to each rear wheel via an electronically-controlled differential. What’s it like to drive? Ah, there it is. That age-old Porsche big-T Turbo sensation of slightly palm-wetting levels of acceleration; the kind that makes you glad Porsche figured out brakes many decades ago. At more than two tons, a touch over three seconds to 62mph and all four wheels doing the work, it’s enough to wonder if pulling out of a junction and matting the pedal is ever so slightly changing the earth’s rotation.