Title: Porsche 911 Carrera S manual 2020 review – immersion therapy

Text: For many, the appearance of this 992 variant long after the type generally went on sale will feel like an event barely worthy of mention. A Porsche 911 992 Carrera S with a manual gearbox, instead of the eight-speed PDK twin clutch box: a combination that’s slower to 60mph by nearly a whole second, and that requires the tiresome operation of a clutch pedal. Whatever. Happily, this is evo, where we are naturally drawn to this car like insects to a Racing Yellow 992 on a July afternoon – even more so because the latest generation of the 911 has failed to get as excited in the manner in which we want Porsche’s enduring legend to really get beneath our skins. Will the addition of a manual gearbox, and the extra involvement in the process of driving that it brings, be the making of the 992 as an evo car? Engine, transmission and 0-60 time The gearbox is a revised version of the seven-speed manual transmission first seen with the introduction of the 991 model. Seventh is very much an overdrive for economy and emissions, and all the ratios are ‘long’, with second gear reaching nearly 80mph and third well on the way to 120mph. The Carrera S features the more powerful version of the twin turbo 3-litre flat six, developing 444bhp and 391lb ft of torque. In a car that weighs 1,480kg DIN, that makes for a serious level of performance: 0-60mph takes four seconds, and the top speed is 191mph. By comparison, a PDK in Sport Plus mode can reach 60mph in just 3.3 seconds, while the top speed is an identical 191mph. Technical highlights Think not of the manual option on the 992 as merely a box ticked, but rather a collection of attributes that creates what Porsche themselves are marketing as something of a driver-focused package. The manual box is combined with the Sport Chrono option, including dynamic engine mounts, a mechanical limited slip differential, steering wheel mode switch and Porsche’s new tyre temperature readout first seen on the 992 Turbo. It can only be selected on an ‘S’ model, and also strips 35kg of weight, dipping the 992’s overall weight under 1,500kg for the first time. What’s it like to drive? Fitting a manual gearbox to the 992 gives the impression in the first few yards that the car has gained 20bhp. There’s something about the immediacy of the car’s response to the throttle as the wheels begin to rotate, and the instant operation of the clutch, that make it feel much more lively, as though you’re not waiting for an electronic brain to decide how much power you can have, or how quickly you can move off. We’re not privy to whether there’s a difference in drivetrain losses, or whether it’s a purely subjective thought, but however you spin the argument, the manual car just feels more energetic; it’s a car with more enthusiasm from your first moment with it.