Title: Knix Introduces Leak-Proof Swimwear + More Fashion News to Know

Text: Photography courtesy of Knix. Knix Introduces Leak-Proof Swimwear + More Fashion News to Know Including a new eBay authentication program and intimates from Frank And Oak. Sunnier days are ahead, folks. And in addition to new leak-proof swimwear styles from Knix, you can look forward to scooping up sneakers from eBay more confidently thanks to its upcoming Authenticity Program launch. Read on for all the fashion news you need-to-know… Knix just introduced its broadest swimwear collection to-date — and it includes leak-proof features Photography courtesy of Knix Coming in hot with 18 different styles, the 2021 swimwear assortment from Knix includes an array of important details including fade-, chlorine- and salt water-resistance and UPF 50+ protection. Several looks also boast leak-proof technology — a win for those who want to hit the water without hesitation. Sizes range from small to XXXL+ and come in printed and solid pieces, proving that variety is indeed the spice of life. eBay Canada begins a sneaker Authenticity Program in May Photography courtesy of eBay Did you know that eBay’s domestic sneaker sales grew a staggering 325 percent last year? That’s a lot of kicks. And whether you’re a sneakerhead or just starting to get serious about collecting, the platform’s soon-to-launch Authenticity Guarantee is a game-changer in terms of snapping up sneakers priced at $100 (or more) with confidence. The Program includes the opening of an authentication centre in Toronto that’s dedicated only to sneakers, and covers covetable brands from Nike to Yeezy — all vetted and verified by an independent team of experts. Frank And Oak will offer intimates starting next week Photography courtesy of Frank And Oak If this past year has taught us anything, it’s that comfort is key to living well. So, Montreal-based label Frank And Oak is launching an intimates collection on May 4. Three underwear styles and two bralettes are found in the mix, which is made from a combo of certified organic cotton and spandex. Breathe easy and stretch it out, friends. Looking for more fashion news? Prabal Gurung’s decor collection for Etsy is available now The finalists for this year’s LVMH Prize have been announced Here’s what to know about Christian Allaire’s new book, The Power of Style