Title: Press Release: Global Finance Announces its 28th Annual Best Bank Awards and Names the Best Banks in the by Region 2021

Text: NEW YORK, March 18, 2021 – Global Finance magazine has announced its 28th annual awards for the World’s Best Banks. The list of the Best Banks by Region is presented here. A full report on the selections will appear in the May print and digital editions of Global Finance and online at GFMag.com, with winners chosen in 150 countries and territories across Africa, Asia-Pacific, the Caribbean, Central America, Central & Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, North America and Western Europe. The May report will also feature selections for the Best US Regional Banks and the Best Islamic Financial Institutions. “Banks are playing a key role in economic recovery around the world. Our Best Bank awards highlight the leaders in restoring growth and mapping a way forward,” said Joseph D. Giarraputo, publisher and editorial director of Global Finance. “This year’s evaluations are more important and valuable than at any point in their 28 year history, given the unprecedented economic conditions wrought by the global pandemic.” The overall Best Bank in the World will be announced in the summer and published in October, along with the Best Global Banks in more than a dozen key categories. The winners of this year’s awards are those banks that attended carefully to their customers’ needs in difficult markets and accomplished stong results while laying the foundations for future success. All selections were made by the editors of Global Finance after extensive consultations with corporate financial executives, bankers and banking consultants, and analysts throughout the world. In selecting these top banks, Global Finance considered factors that ranged from the quantitative objective to the informed subjective. Banks were invited to submit entries supporting their selection. Objective criteria considered included: growth in assets, profitability, geographic reach, strategic relationships, new business development and innovation in products. Subjective criteria included the opinions of equity analysts, credit rating analysts, banking consultants and others involved in the industry. The full list of Global Finance’s World’s Best Banks by Region 2021 follows. For editorial information, please contact Andrea Fiano, editor, afiano@gfmag.com. Global Finance’s World’s Best Banks 2021 Awards Ceremony In past years, winning organizations have been honored at an awards ceremony held during the World Bank/IMF Annual Meetings. If global conditions allow, Global Finance will host this event once again, and winners will be notified about the date and location as far in advance as possible. For more information on the event, please contact Michael Ambrosio at mambrosio@gfmag.com. About Global Finance Global Finance, founded in 1987, has a circulation of 50,000 and readers in 189 countries. Global Finance’s audience includes senior corporate and financial officers responsible for making investment and strategic decisions at multinational companies and financial institutions. Its website — GFMag.com — offers analysis and articles that are the legacy of 34 years of experience in international financial markets. Global Finance is headquartered in New York, with offices around the world. Global Finance regularly selects the top performers among banks and other providers of financial services. These awards have become a trusted standard of excellence for the global financial community. Logo Use Rights To obtain rights to use the Global Finance World’s Best Bank 2021 award logo or any other Global Finance logos, please contact Chris Giarraputo at: chris@gfmag.com The unauthorized use of Global Finance logos is strictly prohibited.