Title: Press Release: Global Finance Announces its 28th Annual Best Bank Awards and Names the Best Banks in Africa 2021

Text: Global Finance has announced its fourteenth annual awards for the World’s Best Islamic Financial Institutions. A full report on the selections will appear in Global Finance’s World’s Best Banks special issue in May, as well as online at GFMag.com. The winners of this year’s awards are those firms that contributed to the growth of Islamic financing. They successfully met their customers’ needs for Shariah-compliant products with modern and efficient delivery channels, while creating the foundation for continued growth and safety in the future. “Islamic principles bring new perspective to global banking practices, including an ethical framework that has special resonance in a time of crisis such as the one we find ourselves in today,” said Joseph D. Giarraputo, publisher and editorial director of Global Finance. “Global Finance promotes wider understanding of Islamic finance to a global audience through its editorial coverage and to corporate finance professionals by identifying, with these awards, the leading practitioners and innovators.” All selections were made by the Global Finance editorial team after extensive consultations with bankers, corporate finance executives and analysts throughout the world. Entry submissions from Islamic Financial Institutions were also considered. In selecting these top firms, factors that ranged from the quantitative objective to the informed subjective were considered. Quantitative criteria included growth in assets, profitability, geographic reach, strategic relationships, new business development and innovation in products. Among the subjective criteria considered were reputation, customer satisfaction and the opinions of analysts and others involved in the industry. The mix of these factors yields leading banks that may not be the largest, oldest or the most diversified in a given country, region or product, but rather the best—the firms with which customers around the world would most likely want to do business. The full list of Global Finance’s World’s Best Islamic Financial Institutions 2021 follows. For editorial information, please contact Andrea Fiano, editor, afiano@gfmag.com.   Global Finance’s World’s Best Banks 2021 Awards Ceremony In past years, winning organizations have been honored at an awards ceremony held during the World Bank/IMF Annual Meetings. If global conditions allow, Global Finance will host this event once again, and winners will be notified about the date and location as far in advance as possible. For more information on the event, please contact Michael Ambrosio at mambrosio@gfmag.com. About Global Finance Global Finance, founded in 1987, has a circulation of 50,000 and readers in 189 countries. Global Finance’s audience includes senior corporate and financial officers responsible for making investment and strategic decisions at multinational companies and financial institutions. Its website — GFMag.com — offers analysis and articles that are the legacy of 34 years of experience in international financial markets. Global Finance is headquartered in New York, with offices around the world. Global Finance regularly selects the top performers among banks and other providers of financial services. These awards have become a trusted standard of excellence for the global financial community. Logo Use Rights To obtain rights to use the Global Finance World’s Best Islamic Financial Institution 2021 award logo or any other Global Finance logos, please contact Chris Giarraputo at: chris@gfmag.com The unauthorized use of Global Finance logos is strictly prohibited.