Title: WRC 10 Announced To Celebrate 50 Years Of Rally Racing This September

Text: Publisher Nacon and developer KT Racing have announced WRC 10, the latest in the long-running rally racing series. The studio is implementing several changes in hopes of improving the overall racing experience. Not only that, but this game strives to celebrate the 50th anniversary of FIA World Rally Championship (WRC) in 2022 through several new features. As part of the celebration of WRC's 50th anniversary, WRC 10 introduces a retrospective mode, allowing players to relive 19 of the most important events in WRC history. These challenges are meant to put your skills to the test as you deal with different conditions specific to each era of racing. The mode offers six historic rallies including the Acropolis Rally in Greece, Rallye Sanremo in Italy, and more. On top of all that, this package delivers four brand new rallies: Estonia, Croatia, Belgium, and Spain. You can attack these rallies with more than 20 of the most well-known rally cars from manufacturers like Audi, Subaru, and Mitsubishi. Career mode is also receiving various improvements, complete with a new livery editor and team creator. Players can outfit your car and apply your own colors as you please. Now, you can create your own team to race alongside the 52 official teams present in the 2021 season. Once you're on the track, die-hard players will notice several gameplay improvements. Whether you're struggling to hug the muddy corners or blasting onto the paved straightaway, WRC promises to recreate surfaces with a greater attention to detail than ever before. Players will also notice better aerodynamics, improved turbo, and better braking. Nacon and KT Racing also released a brief announcement trailer showing the game in action. You can see the short announcement video below. While we missed out on WRC 9, we were big fans of WRC 8. In a 2020 article about the best games to play during the shelter-in-place order, former Game Informer editor Matthew Kato picked WRC 8 as his choice. "The Xbox One has well-known and solid racers like the Forza titles, but WRC 8 is definitely worth a look if you’re up for a challenge," he said. WRC 10 comes to PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on September 2. The racing title will also hit Switch at some point after that.