Title: Let's Play The First Two Hours Of Resident Evil Village - Game Informer Live

Text: Resident Evil Village is almost here and if you couldn't tell already from our glowing review, we loved our time with the latest horror adventure from Capcom. To celebrate the coming launch, we're going to be playing the first two hours of Resident Evil Village. So come hang out, join the fun, and don't judge us when you realize how big of weenies we really are here at Game Informer. The two-hour Resident Evil live stream event will be kicking off at 9 a.m. Central on the Game Informer YouTube and Twitch channels. We'll be diving in as Ethan Winters as he embarks on his journey to find his daughter Rose after she's taken by Chris Redfield following the murder of his wife Mia. Of course, it wouldn't be a Resident Evil game if everything was as it seems, so come join us as we uncover the mysteries of the latest adventure while we try to battle our foes, our fears, and our thirst of Lady Dimitrescu. In case you missed it, we gave Resident Evil Village a 9.25 out of 10. You can read our full review right here, with a small blurb below courtesy of our own Ben Reeves: Resident Evil Village’s narrative is more compelling than I expected. Ethan is still a bit of a bland everyman, but his journey to rescue his daughter is full of wild characters and a handful of surprising moments. Village’s narrative was never the main thing driving me forward, but I’m glad to see that Capcom actually put some thought into this world, and a few of the late game twists have me genuinely excited to see where the series goes next. Resident Evil Village is an impressive package. I loved the recent remakes of Resident Evil 2 and 3, but I’m excited to see Capcom push the series forward again. Village expands on Resident Evil 7: Biohazard’s approach to first-person combat, offering a series of white-knuckle encounters that perfectly complement Capcom’s unnerving environmental design. Thankfully, Village’s amplified action doesn’t diminish its horror. If anything, Village maintains a sense of dread that few games can match. If you have the intestinal fortitude for intense terror, playing Resident Evil Village is a great way to check your pulse. So join Alex Van Aken, Ben Reeves, and Liana Ruppert as we go all-in with Resident Evil Village. And you might want to turn that volume down in advance, we can't promise that we won't scream.