Title: The Boys season 3: release date, cast, story, and everything else we know

Text: The Boys are back in town for what promises to be a third season rich with everything that fans loved about its first two years: Supes, sex, and several gallons of blood being spilled. That's not all to look forward to in The Boys season 3, however. The Amazon superhero series is set to soar higher than ever before, with new faces being introduced and some bit-part players upped to series regulars. That intrigue has even spilled over into the story. Below, we'll have some exclusive quotes on what might be coming next, as well as a look ahead to a delightfully NSFW arc that's been adapted from the comcis. All that and more can be found in our guide to The Boys season. First up: let's speculate about the upcoming release date now that filming has begun. (Image credit: Amazon) The Boys season 3 release date hasn’t been announced yet. But that doesn’t mean we have no idea of when it’ll land. . That's because The Boys season 3 has begun filming. Creator Eric Kripke and star Karl Urban shared photos of themselves on the way to filming in Toronto back in February. What does all that mean for The Boys season 3 release date? Taking into account previous filming schedules of past seasons and how they lined up to actual air dates helps us work out a (hopefully) fairly accurate release window. The Boys season 1 started shooting in May 2018 and finished up in October 2018, eventually airing in July 2019 – a gap of nine months. The Boys season 2, meanwhile, filmed across July 2019 to November 2019, and streamed on Amazon Prime in September 2020 – a gap of 10 months later. If filming runs smoothly, that could mean The Boys season 3 release date lands in late 2021. If we’re following a similar pattern to previous seasons, though, expect it to arrive in the first few months of 2022 just to give everyone a little more wiggle room. Unless they put all the cast and crew on Compound V, that is. The Boys season 3 cast: who’s new, who’s staying, and who could be leaving (Image credit: Amazon) The Boys season 2 ending means The Boys season 3 cast has been shaken up. No official news yet on who’s returning, though we can certainly make an educated guess after what’s transpired. Butcher (Karl Urban), Hughie (Jack Quaid), Frenchie (Tomer Capon), Mother’s Milk (Laz Alonso), and Kimiko (Karen Fukuhara) should all be back. On the Supe side of things, there’s Homelander (Antony Starr), Maeve (Dominique McElligott), Starlight (Erin Moriarty), A-Train (Jessie Usher), and Black Noir (Nathan Mitchell) forming the Seven. The Deep (Chace Crawford) is likely to be sticking around, too. Expect Vought CEO Stan Edgar (Giancarlo Esposito) to make a handful of appearances if the actor’s schedule allows. Outside of that, the biggest name is Claudia Doumit’s Congresswoman Victoria Neuman. After being revealed to be behind the head-exploding attacks, it’s clear that she’s going to be a major focus of season three. According to Deadline, she and Colby Minifie (Vought PR Ashley) have been promoted to series regulars. Talking of head explosions, escape Sage Grove patient Cindy is now on the loose and "as dangerous as ever." Chances are she'll have a presence in The Boys season 3. One confirmed new addition to the cast is Soldier Boy, a Supe who is essentially a twisted take on Captain America. He will be played by Supernatural star Jensen Ackles. Eric Kripke describes the character as “the very first Superhero, he'll bring so much humour, pathos, and danger to the role.” Kripke also told TV Guide that Soldier Boy has a surprise connection to Stormfront. Comic Book also report that Ackles has shared a picture of his new hairstyle, seemingly during quarantine for filming on The Boys – if this is for the show, it's a style shake-up for Soldier Boy, who in the comics has shorter hair and is clean-shaven. Deadline also report that Katia Winter has joined season 3, and though her role hasn't been officially confirmed, they indicate she could be playing Russian gangster Little Nina, who in the comics works with Vought. Another who Kripke wants to line up but hasn’t sealed the deal with yet is fellow Supernatural alum (and The Walking Dead mainstay) Jeffrey Dean Morgan. During a roundtable at which GamesRadar+ was present, Kripke said: “Of the many things COVID is screwing up in this world, a Jeffrey Dean Morgan cameo or a Jeffrey Dean Morgan role may be one of them. But if the quarantine is removed and a couple of things break our way? Then yeah, we’ll try to figure it out.” Among those who might not be returning are Stormfront (Aya Cash) and Becca (Shantel VanSanten), who both perished in the season 2 finale. Of course, the show hasn’t been shy about bringing back dead characters via other means – such as Doppelganger turning into Elizabeth Shue’s Madelyn Stilwell. So don’t rule out some form of flashback or cloning shenanigans just yet. Kripke has seemingly confirmed Stormfront isn't dead, so watch this space – although, Cash herself has said she doesn't know if she'll be back, isn't currently filming, and that her contract was just for one year. The Boys season 3 trailer: when can we expect one? (Image credit: Amazon) Again, we’re going to have to go by previous years to tease out details for this one in the absence of any hard and fast information about The Boys season 3 – at least, in terms of footage. The Boys' second season trailer debuted surprisingly early in December 2019, some six weeks after filming had finished. The Batman showed you can cut together a sizeable trailer even if you haven’t filmed everything, so there’s still hope yet for the first glimpse of The Boys season 3 to come in a mid-to-late 2021 trailer. The Boys season 3 images: first photo revealed #TheBoys #Season3 #FirstPhoto #InProduction#TheBoysTV @TheBoysTV @PrimeVideo @SPTV #SPNFamily pic.twitter.com/S9aMSy5FF8February 24, 2021 See more Show creator Eric Kripke has revealed the first set photo from behind the scenes on The Boys season 3. Showcasing a golden Supe statue (which could be Homelander or newcomer Soldier Boy, the jury is still out), it's also got an unfortunately-angled view of the hero's unmentionables. So, it's The Boys through and through. Kripke also shared illustrated posters of Homelander and Queen Maeve to Twitter – the text accompanying both characters is fairly ironic, all things considered. #VoughtPSA #TheMoreYouKnow #TheBoys #TheBoysTV @TheBoysTV @PrimeVideo @SPTV #SPNFamily pic.twitter.com/gR7y4kW089March 19, 2021 See more The Boys season 3 story: Sex, Supes, and (probably) more head explosions (Image credit: Amazon) The Boys season 2 finale has major ramifications for the show moving forward. Not least of all season 3, which has to deal with characters going their separate ways, new alliances being formed – and some not surviving at all. We can expect plenty of focus on Victoria Neuman. The secret Supe politician has been blowing up brains and surely has some sort of diabolical plan up her sleeve. Butcher, too, might be in the sightlines of Vought and the reformed Seven after going back on his word and keeping Ryan out of the clutches of Stan Edgar. That, and the introduction of the first Supe, Soldier Boy, could mean more of the corporation’s origins are laid bare, too. Helpfully, we also pressed both Victoria Neuman actor Claudia Doumit and Black Noir actor Nathan Mitchell on what we can expect from their respective characters in the third season – which should serve as a nice appetiser until we find out more concrete aspects of The Boys season 3 story. (Image credit: Amazon) “I’m excited to see what happens with Hughie and her. I’m excited to find out more about her. I’m excited to really dig into what her backstory is and how she got to where she is. Also, I’m very excited to see her fuck some shit up, blow some heads up,” Doumit said of what she hopes to see from Neuman in the third season. As for Black Noir? He has the potential to fuck shit up in a very different, scarier way. On the potential changes to the Seven in season 3, Mitchell said, “Him and Maeve are not going to get along! That’s pretty evident. It is so interesting because you have this forced alliance between people. Homelander doesn’t trust Maeve, doesn’t trust Starlight. Noir just fought Starlight, he definitely doesn’t trust Maeve. A-Train just clawed his way back in, he has this uneasy alliance with Starlight, so now they’re frenemies.” “Everybody’s crossed, it’s like this house that’s divided within itself but still together. There are a lot of interesting undercurrents to the dynamic that’s going to come out of season 3.” The Boys story has never shied away from real-world events. You-know-what is dominating at the moment – and Eric Kripke is sure that COVID-19 will influence some of the stories he and his writing team will tell moving forward. During a roundtable, Kripke teased, “I can tell that season three, without being specifically about COVID— we’re having a lot of conversations about the government response to COVID here in the States. And my guess is, you’ll see that metaphorically show up in one way or another.” One idea that has been floated for season 3 is “Herogasm.” As the name implies, it’s an arc ripped from the comics that involves Supes getting hot and sweaty with each other. In a Reddit AMA, Krikpe confirmed he wanted to film those sex scenes for one episode. It looks to be happening, even if season 3 is already shaping up to be a doozy without any more bodily fluids being spilled. If Kripke's recent Tweets are any indication, season 3 will even feature the Dawn of the Seven world premiere. The Avengers-style Vought movie was 'filmed' during the events of The Boys season 2, and we could see the finished product in future episodes. Actor Laz Alonso has also teased a serious amount of blood is being spilled in the upcoming season. We also have one final clue. A word: Payback. That's the title of The Boys season 3 premiere and is also reference to a group torn from the pages of The Boys comics, one that includes Soldier Boy and (at one time) Stormfront. Could we see more of the super-team in season 3? So, TL;DR? It could be a long, long wait until The Boys season 3, even if there is a lot to look forward to. In the meantime, check out the best shows on Amazon Prime and the best movies on Amazon Prime.