Title: The Umbrella Academy season 3: release date speculation, cast, plot, and more

Text: There's still a little while to wait until The Umbrella Academy season 3 arrives on Netflix. Elliott Page, who plays Vanya, recently confirmed that the new season is currently filming, which means a release date isn't on the immediate horizon. Not a lot is known about the plot just yet, but we've had a sneak peek at the Sparrow Academy, a new superpowered team who look set to play a big role in the new season – and that might not be good news for Five, Vanya, and the other Hargreaves siblings. We've also got some insight from actors Robert Sheehan and Tom Hooper, who play Klaus and Luther, about what they hope is in store for their characters, and we've done our best to predict when we can expect a trailer and season 3's debut on Netflix. That's just the start of it, too, so keep scrolling to find out everything we know so far about The Umbrella Academy season 3. The best Netflix shows to watch right now Everything to know about Stranger Things season 4 (Image credit: Netflix) Netflix has confirmed that production will start in February 2021 . Season 2 was announced back in April 2019 and started streaming in July 2020, so using that same timescale we can hazard a guess that The Umbrella Academy season 3 might drop sometime in February 2022. Nothing has been revealed yet, though. As for when we might find out, the season 2 release date was announced in May 2020, so only two months in advance of the season premiere. Again, if we use the same timescale, that means we should keep an eye out in December 2021. The Umbrella Academy season 3 cast (Image credit: Netflix) Elliot Page, Tom Hopper, David Castañeda, Emmy Raver-Lampman, Robert Sheehan, Aidan Gallagher, and Justin H. Min are all confirmed to reprise their roles as the Hargreeves siblings, while Ritu Arya will return as Lila. Colm Feore is back as Reginald Hargreeves, too. The Umbrella Academy season 2 ending also introduced the "Sparrow Academy", a new group of superheroes formed by a still-alive Reginald in an alternative universe in which our heroes now live. Justin H. Min will play an alternate-universe-version of his character Ben, alongside a host of new faces. Justin Cornwell will play Marcus, the leader of the Sparrows who keeps the family in check, while Britne Oldford is Fei, a lonely misanthrope who’s usually the smartest person in the room. Jake Epstein is Alphonso, armed with a biting sense of humour and Genesis Rodriguez is romantic dreamer Sloane. Cazzie David will play Jayme, a loner who doesn’t speak much and whose only friend is Alphonso. According to Netflix, the seventh sparrow, Christopher, will be played by Existential Dread Inducing Psykronium Cube. Christopher is loyal, trustworthy, and can turn a room freezing cold and induce paralysing fear – and, crucially, a large, telekinetic cube. While this may create more questions than it answers, at least we know why there was a giant cube at the end of season 2 now. The Umbrella Academy season 3 trailer: when can we expect one? (Image credit: Netflix) The season 2 trailer dropped just over three weeks before the season started, so it looks like we might have to wait a while for our first sneak peek of season 3 – potentially to 2022. However, The Umbrella Academy season 2 was one of Netflix’s most-popular shows, so the streamer may put out a teaser sooner in order to keep up momentum. The Umbrella Academy season 3 plot (Image credit: IMDb) Season 2 ended with the main gang managing to save the world once more. However, while they may have managed to return from the '60s back to 2019, things have changed. Instead of forming the Umbrella Academy, Reginald began the "Sparrow Academy", a new group of super-powered beings that are introduced at the very end. However, their faces are unseen, but we do know Number One is alive again. Showrunner Steve Blackman revealed that the season 3 premiere will be called "Meet the Family" – so we may be getting to know this new team sooner rather than later. A post shared by Steve Blackman (@steveblackmantv) A photo posted by on We got a good look at the Sparrow Academy recently thanks to a tweet from Justin H. Min, which shows off the cast in sports jackets, complete with a matching logo. The tweet was captioned "let the games begin," along with emojis of a bird and an umbrella, teasing the rivalry we can expect to see between the Hargreeves and the Sparrows in season 3. let the games begin. 🐦x☂️ pic.twitter.com/afItQt1v4OJanuary 31, 2021 See more We also spoke to Tom Hopper and Robert Sheehan – who play Luther and Klaus – about what to expect next, and while coy on details, they did reveal what they would like to see. For one thing, they would like to make a feature-length episode, but they're not so keen to emulate the superhero movies that dominate the box office. “I certainly like the idea of doing different proliferations,” Sheehan told GamesRadar. “The idea of it becoming a sort of a big superhero feel, I wouldn't be.” “I think the magic of the show is that it is very grounded and it's not all superheroe-y stuff,” Hopper added. “We season it with the superhero stuff, but the reason people love it [is] because of the people behind the ‘superheroes’.” While finale episode of season 2 transported the Hargreeves family back to modern times, the actors would still like to explore a few different eras through time travel. “From season 1, you're always talking about where the show could go. I’d like to do the Eighties, actually,” Hopper said. Sheehan, added he would like to see them go back to “Medieval times,” adding: “What if they went back to the day they were all born? Something in 1987. The whole 20th century was contentious. I'm always hatching pipe dreams.” It seems like showrunner Steve Blackman is happy to take his cast’s ideas on board, so we may see some of these ideas come to fruition. “We love hanging around in this world. It's a lot of fun,” Hopper said. “And we all love working with each other. It's quite a gift to have the kind of show we have written. We have a showrunner who's very collaborative and allows us to be.”