Title: YouTubers Life 2 Revealed, Much More Than Just Another Simulator

Text: YouTubers Life first made its debut back in 2016 and was met with positive feedback for its in-depth simulation of what it is like to be a content creator. The title was well-received, and because of that, YouTubers Life 2 is on the way and aims to take the impressively detailed inside look at what it means to be a content creator to a whole new level. For those interested, we here at Game Informer have your first look ready to rock and roll. Now, I know what you might be thinking. It's "fun" and "trendy" to dunk on YouTubers and content creators alike, but what I think many people don't realize is how demanding this can be. Editing, concept ideation, community management, self-PR, self-marketing, being ahead of the curve with trends, the almost-required need to be "plugged in" 24/7 to stay in the know is honestly exhausting a lot harder to manage than many might think. Pair that with those still finding their place in the community by doing all of that and holding down a more traditional 9-to-5 job, and you've got important skills being developed and a lot of hard work ahead. YouTubers Life 2 aims to capture more than just the glamor of "making it;" it captures the reality of what goes into being a "successful" content creator. The fatigue felt in long hours, the elation at seeing that community grow, the sense of accomplishment at cashing in that first paycheck; it's all there! If you're like me, this is a fun adventure to pass the time. The first game was engaging and easy to get lost in but playful with its art design to where it was a fun getaway. Create your own videos, gain your first subscribers, attend the wildest parties? Go big or go home. “The original Youtubers Life has been such a big success and continues to be to this day, but the kinds of things content creators are both doing and achieving now is monumentally different to the world we first looked to simulate back in 2016,” project director and co-founder of Uplay Online Quim Garrigós tells Game Informer. “We wanted that original premise to grow with the content creators themselves, which is why we’ve been working on expanding our offering significantly with Youtubers Life 2. There’s nobody else operating in this space, nobody else simulating Youtubers either big or small, so we’re proud to stand as the go-to game for gamers looking to live out their content creating dreams.” So what can players look forward to with the YouTuber's Life sequel? Glad you asked: More content options for YouTube videos, including reviews, gameplays, speedruns, unboxings, interviews, and more. Subscriber and video statistics that directly react to a broadening of a creator’s content. A new mechanic called “Trends,” which fluctuates daily and affects your popularity as a YouTuber. More personalization options for your character and a fully customizable and expandable home. Scores of new and expansive features to be announced in the coming months. Deeper relationships with NPCs, including additional questlines. “The original game enjoyed the exact same kind of virality the best content creators amass every day,” adds Sergio de Benito, Marketing Director at Raiser Games. “In all, Youtubers Life videos have passed the 350,000 mark, generating more than 500 million views for more than 50,000 content creators. We think UPLAY Online’s plans for Youtubers Life 2 will enable the franchise to cement its position as the ultimate content creator simulator. The more modernized YouTubers Life 2 will be launching on PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo Switch, and PC sometime this year. Thoughts on the YouTuber simulating game? Have you tried your hand at content creation? Sound off with your thoughts in the comment section below!