Title: PS5 stock updates: where to buy a PlayStation 5

Text: After a dismal April for PS5 stock, we're relatively optmisitic that we'll get to ring the Mayday alarm a few times this month with incoming waves of chances to buy a PS5. We're hoping Sony has been working on producing larger batches to get to retailers rather than the unsatisfying dribble we've had so far this year, which could go some ways to explaining why April was the worst month yet for anyone trying to find PS5 stock. There is of course the recurring problem of the global shortage of semi-conductors, a crucial component for the PS5 and just about every in-demand electronic device on the planet (and smart fridges). That's right, every time someone buys a fridge that tells them they don't have milk, a child's dream of getting a PS5 dies a little. It's better than the parallel parking issue in the Suez canal at least. We're here to help you buy a PS5 though. This regularly updated PS5 stock guide will let you know which stores you should be checking as often as you can along with letting you know what sort of form they have for getting the PlayStation 5 in stock. We've gone into greater detail further down the page, but if you want to see where you're most likely to be able to buy a PS5 in the US, we've got the links below. PS5 stock most likely at: Amazon | Walmart | Target | Best Buy We'd always advise going with stores sticking to the regular prices rather than giving in to the scalpers on online auction sites. Yes, the PS5 is lovely, but it's not worth paying over a grand for one. The only reason we'll show you something over the basic asking price of the PS5 is if has some bundled extras, but as our lonely PS5 bundles page would attest, we'd just concentrate on trying to find the console on its own for now. If you're able to bag one, be sure to head on over to our best PS5 accessories and best PS5 headsets guides to complete your setup. Where to buy a PS5: check these stores for stock Let's have a closer look at some retailers below. We'll let you know what they've been up to lately and how likely they are to get PS5 stock back any time soon. Were to buy PS5 - USA Amazon - last PS5 stock seen April 24 Amazon hadn't unleashed a PS5 restock since January until one super late night in April when it put units online around 3am on a Sunday. There's been nothing since sadly and we still think those near-mythical 46,000 units are lurking somewhere. Our best guess, Amazon is holding off until Prime Day in the Summer, which we're hearing might be happening in June instead of July this year. While you wait though, keep checking those links! Remember though, a PS5 should be $499 and the Digital Edition is $399, so don't get caught out by third-party listings that often appear. View Deal Best Buy - last PS5 stock seen March 26 For a while, Fridays were a reliable day for fresh PS5 stock, but it's been over a month now since Best Buy had a PS5 restock. April was terrible at most stores though. Buying a PS5 at Best Buy has been an online-only affair for a while though, so there's not much point asking in store for a while yet. View Deal Walmart - last PS5 stock seen April 15 Thursdays are the best options for finding PS5 stock at Walmart. Things have been quiet for a few weeks now admittedly, but before that stock was coming online once a week. Sometimes you'll see a time on the listing page when PS5 stock is set to go live on the day. If you just miss out, stick around as it usually updates with another time shortly after for a second or third resupply the same day. If you fancy giving Walmart Plus a go for free right now by the way, for free speedy delivery, discounted fuel, and other benefits, there's currently a 15-day free trial. View Deal Target - last PS5 stock seen April 28 Buying a PS5 at Target has been a bit random in 2021. Unlike other stores above, PS5 stock seems to vary by zipcode but Wednesdays or Thursday seems to be the day it happens with some consistency. That being said, it's often super early at around 6-10am ET (very much unfair for west coast people). Keep checking in your area as you might get lucky and not have as much competition as other stores that sell nationally. You might have to pick it up from the store though with some Target PS5 listings. View Deal 12-month PS Plus subscription (US) | $59.99 $29.99 at CDKeys PlayStation Plus is an essential extra for your new PS5 as you need it to play online. It also bags you a bunch of free games each month, plus access to a selection of classic PS4 games playable on PS5. You're saving a massive 55% off a full year of PS Plus with this deal. And remember, it can be stacked on top of your existing membership. Save £6 in the UK and get it for £43.99. View Deal Were to buy PS5 - UK Amazon Various Amazon websites in mainland Europe have had stock recently, so we're thinking a PS5 stock drop could be UK-bound at any moment. Keep trying your luck as Amazon hasn't had anything for a while, so the next shipment could be a big one. View Deal Very Very has been quiet for PS5 stock since March. When it does get it, there's often an online rolling queue which perhaps gets around the scalper bots problem, giving more genuine buyers a shot at finding the PS5 in stock. Note: Very often deletes the PS5 product listing page when out of stock, so you might have to search manually for the PS5 on the site. View Deal Currys The Currys website has been one of the best in the UK as far as bricks and mortar stores adapting to online go and it's been a regular on our PS5 stock alerts over the last few months. It often gives people a heads-up on when the next chance to buy a PS5 online will be, although we're not massive fans of having to join a digital queue on the busier days (get yourself signed in and everything in advance folks next time stock is coming), we'll keep you updated here next time that's announced too. Currys has also just launched an online PS5 ballot system for a chance to buy one in person, so that's a hat more than worth throwing your name into if you're tired of the search. View Deal Argos Calling all you night owls, Argos might be your best store to buy a PS5 from while stock is this bad nationwide. That's because the store tends to put stock online in the middle of the night, often around 3 or 4am. There's very little, if any, warning ahead of time too. We often check out the PS5 stock rumor mill first thing on Twitter in the morning and have seen plenty of threads from frustrated day walkers, although nothing so far this week. View Deal Another item you might want to pick up once you've been able to buy a PS5 is one of the options on our best PS5 external hard drives page to increase your storage capacity. Or if you've got the need for speed, the best PS5 SSD might be worth a look. 