Title: Xbox Series X stock updates: where to buy the new Xbox consoles

Text: It's never been easy to find Xbox Series X stock since launch. But the first few months of the year at least saw a steady trickle of supply from a select few retailers. There are signs that April might end up being a quieter one though. But if you know which ones to check, you'll certainly stand a better chance and that's where we come in with this guide with a selection of links to the most likely stores for success. In the US, Target and Best Buy had stock last month and Walmart had some Xbox Series X stock in as recently as last week. In the UK Very and Game have been the most consistent spots for Series X stock. Units still go in minutes, but considering it used to last just seconds, this is an improvement (yes, the bar is low). With any luck, this could be a sign that the scalpers are running out of enthusiasm as they're not managing to shift their horde of overpriced Xboxes for the profits they were expecting. So please don't give in and pay over the proper asking price, we're so close now! On the plus side, you are slightly more likely to find an Xbox Series X or Series S than find spare PS5 stock as that goes even faster. After the links below, you'll find some more detailed updates on the latest situations at individual retailers. Keep checking back in on this guide as we'll be updating it next time we get warnings of Xbox Series X stock coming back online. Where to buy Xbox Series X Our pro tip for finding Xbox Series X stock is to open up the retailer tabs and refresh them when you can. We will of course be updating this page as soon as we hear about any updates on when you'll be able to buy an Xbox Series X or when to next expect stock. Do keep an eye on those prices though as we've seen some third-party merchants on Amazon and other sites go past the usual asking price. Where to buy Xbox Series X - USA Amazon It's been quiet on the Xbox Series X stock front at Amazon for a while to be honest, but as the biggest online store in the world, it's still the one we'd check first every day. Sometimes the listing page goes missing, so you might have to search manually. After recent showings from Best Buy and Walmart, we think Amazon is due to show something. View Deal Target We'd advise keeping an eye on Targets on Thursdays as it's got rich form of getting Xbox Series X stock on this day. Target's Xbox stock is regional with in-store pickup often required so you might get lucky in your zipcode. So head on over and see! View Deal Best Buy The Xbox Series X and Series have made a few appearances at Best Buy in recent weeks so it's well worth a regular check to see if you get lucky. The store has slight form in releasing them on a Friday, but it's far from a fixed pattern in all honesty. View Deal Walmart Walmart has been pretty good at announcing in advance when Xbox Series X and Series S restocks are coming. Sometimes it on the social feeds, or you might notice it on the listing page. Friday is generally your best bet, usually around mid-afternoon ET. Sometimes you might get lucky and after the first batch sells out, the listing gets another timeslot mentioned for a few hours later on the same day. If you have a Walmart nearby, it's worth checking out the current Walmart Plus 15-day free trial. It opens you up to discounted fuel, free super fast online delivery, and checkout-free shopping in-store. View Deal Microsoft The official Microsoft store mainly seems to get restocks of the comparatively unwanted Series S instead of the Series X. Keep checking, but it's a long shot compared to the other stores we've highlighted, as it would seem that the company is content to shift most new units to the stores mentioned above instead. View Deal Where to buy Xbox Series X - UK Amazon Checking Amazon every day is still a solid piece of advice as stock has briefly appeared a few times recently, but it's so fleeting and at such random times of day we're not entirely sure reports are always genuine. Even so, as the UK's biggest online store, you'd be mad to write them off. View Deal Very We've seen more Xbox Series X restocks here than most other stores combined. You have to be quick to grab the ones that are selling the console on its own though as Very does save some stock to be sold as bundles with extras like a second controller or online sub. On the plus side, they're just at standard costs rather than ridiculously over-inflated prices. View Deal Currys Currys was amongst the most regular of restockers for the Series X late last year but has been much quieter so far in 2021. The digital queues are back when stock does appear so you'll have to hang on in there for up to an hour sometimes. The site is prone to falling over under the strain (maybe more on PS5 days), so it can be a frustrating experience. View Deal Box.co.uk Tired of missing out to scalpers? Box has been the dark horse for the new consoles of late and has been trying something different ahead of drops as it often opens up an online ballot where you effectively pop your email into a hat for a fair chance to buy an Xbox Series X when it's back in stock. View Deal John Lewis We expected more of John Lewis, but it's been really slow with Xbox Series X stock, with none at all around launch and not much else since in all honesty. However, John Lewis would be one of our preferred places to buy an Xbox Series X as its electronics come with a two-year guarantee at no extra cost compared to the regular single year you get everywhere else. At this rate though, you might be waiting until the autumn for it to get involved properly as it's just not getting anywhere near the same amount of stock as the stores above. View Deal Xbox Series X accessories Picking up a spare controller or one of the best Xbox Series X headsets might be a smart move sooner rather than later just-in-case stock shortages hit them too. For the full rundown on the most essential items, check out our guide to the best Xbox Series X accessories. (Image credit: Steelseries) (Image credit: Microsoft) (Image credit: Microsoft) (Image credit: Microsoft) If you're not quite ready to drop the cash tomorrow take a look at Josh's Xbox Series X review and Xbox Series S review for the full verdicts and be sure to keep an eye on our regularly-updated guides to the latest Xbox Series X bundle deals and PS5 deals.