Title: Pre-Workout Meals: 8 Experts on What to Eat Before a Workout

Text: What’s the deal with pre-workout meals? Their importance and influence on performance potential and recovery are often emphasised by those in-the-know, but what actually constitutes an ideal pre-workout meal? Whether you're a runner, Crossfitter, HIIT-workout lover, yogi bear, or Sunday stroller, you may often find yourself deliberating over what to eat before a workout. And, you're not alone. We've lost count of the number of times WH staffers have been seen desperately scoffing a banana while tying up the laces on their running shoes, in a bid for energy, but only to moan of stitch mere 15 minutes later. That's because, fun fact: it takes your body at least 60 minutes to digest a snack. Eat in the hour before you move and you'll essentially be exercising on a full stomach, which can lead to issues like hiccups, nausea, cramps, nausea and stitches, according to nutritionist Jenna Hope (@jennahopenutrition). When should you eat a pre-workout meal? The NHS advises you to allow around three hours after having a main pre-workout meal before you exercise, and leave at least an hour after your pre-workout snack for best results (and lowest risk of the stitch / nausea double whammy). It advises that a snack that contains low levels of fat, medium levels of protein and higher levels of carbohydrates is ‘a good choice to help you perform during your training and recover afterwards,’ too. Think: a banana and peanut butter, rice cake and jam or handful of nuts. Why are pre-workout meals important? Pre-workout meals, when eaten at an appropriate time and when containing necessary nutrients, can provide fuel to essentially allow you to perform at your best. They can have a huge impact on the way that your body feels during and post-workout and can assist with recovery too. While everybody is different and this is definitely an area where you've got to figure out what works best for you, having enough energy for your workout is important, Jenna notes. 'Fuelling your workouts is important to ensure you have adequate glycogen levels, which support the demands of your workouts.' Curious about the much debated fasted-cardio? We've done a deep dive. What about pre-workout supplements? Whilst pre-workout supplements can help to hype you up before a big session, they aren’t for everyone. According to registered nutritionist Katherine Kimber. 'Although they may play a role in enhancing the performance of well-trained athletes, for most people, a well-balanced diet – especially one which is timed appropriately – should be enough. At the end of the day, a deficient eating pattern cannot be out trained – or out supplemented.' Some find that they can stomach pre-workout supplements in drink form more comfortably than they can a pre-workout meal, and they provide a convenient solution for those looking for an energy boost whilst on the go or short on time. That said, some find the energy-surging caffeine in pre-workout supplements a little overwhelming. So, your best bet is to experiment with pre-workout fuel to find which suits your body best. Start with trialling pre-workout meals. The best pre-workout meals Ready for a scroll of what some of London's top coaches, nutritionists and personal trainers eat pre-workout? You betcha. Here's exactly what you need to eat in a pre-workout meal.