Title: Ayesha And Stephen Curry's Astrological Compatibility

Text: Considering how long they’ve been together (they met in church group as teens, fyi) you might not be all that surprised to hear Ayesha and Stephen “Steph” Curry feel at home with each other. But according to intuitive astrologer Rachel Lang, this comfort with one another was written in the stars all along. Their sun signs, Aries and Pisces, are right next to each other, signaling a strong friendship to back their romance. And what's more, their moons are also both air signs. “The moon is the part of our chart that indicates our emotional nature and our needs within relationships,” Lang explains. “Ayesha’s Moon is in partnership-oriented Libra, and Steph’s Moon is in visionary Aquarius.” Because their emotions are rooted in intellect-driven air signs, both have a steady balance between their heads and their hearts. These similar values allow them to make a home for their three children that’s stable and harmonious. And sure, like all relationships, Ayesha’s and Steph’s isn’t perfect. For example, Steph has a harder time than Ayesha communicating his emotions with words. While analyzing their charts, Lang was able to spot numerous elements that explain how the couple’s relationship has stood the tests of time and fame. Ahead, she breaks down exactly what those are. Because of his sun sign, Steph is a calming presence for Ayesha. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. "Ayesha is a fiery Aries, the sign of a go-getter who isn’t afraid to take the initiative to start her own business or follow her dreams," Lang says of the host, author, and entrepreneur. Ayesha's naturally independent and driven, and while she doesn't need much of a push to get going, she needs a complementary presence who can keep her from burning out. This is where Steph comes in. "Steph’s sun sign is in Pisces, giving him warmth and suggesting he’s a loving supporter of Ayesha’s dreams," says Lang. "As a water sign, Pisces can be a calming presence for Aries, a fire sign, but he needs to make sure he isn’t putting out her fire or challenging her enthusiasm."  Mercury is the reason they have no problem opening up to one another. Mercury is the planet of expression, and Ayesha's Mercury is very close to Steph's sun. This means there's a strong emphasis on communication between the two of them, says Lang. "...After all this time, they are never at a loss for how to show one another they care," she adds. The couple is also great at reminding each other how in love they are. "Ayesha’s Venus, the planet of romance and relationships, is in Pisces, like Steph’s Sun. This is an influence that shows the potential for physical and romantic attraction." Saturn proves Ayesha and Steph are meant to be. "Ayesha’s Saturn is in Capricorn, next to Steph’s Mars," Lang points out. "Saturn can show the challenges we’re here to work out in our relationships, but it also indicates the fated lessons we’re here to experience." Both Steph and Ayesha are constantly working to uphold their strong partnership how to be a team while supporting the other's personal goals and dreams outside of the relationship. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Saturn is the planet you look at to see if a couple can make through thick and thin, says Lang. It determines whether a couple can work though the tough times and achieve their dreams together. And when it comes to Steph and Ayesha, they do just that. They constantly build each other up while challenging each other.  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io