Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Cystic Acne On Eyebrow In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a severe case of cystic acne. There are whiteheads, blackheads, and other inflamed bumps all around his eyebrows. Dr. Pimple Popper uses her comedone extractor tool to empty them all out and transform his skin. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is the go-to doc for problem skin. She can take care of just about anything her patients bring to her treatment room. Her latest patient has a severe case of whiteheads, blackheads, and cysts. The doc has already put him on medication to prevent future breakouts, but there's only one way to clear up the current pimples: popping. That's exactly what Dr. Pimple Popper does in satisfying fashion in her latest Instagram video. She explains everything you need to know in the caption: "Happy Monday!! Here are a couple of whitehead extractions on a patient of mine with cystic acne, that was on Accutane at the time. The medication helped prevent new cysts and comedones (whiteheads/blackheads), but it can’t remove existing comedones, so I went in and did some extractions for him! #drpimplepoppper #extractions #cysticacne" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Then, she gets right to work. Dr. Pimple Popper uses her comedone extractor tool and presses down on each bump individually. It is quite the impressive transformation. Each little comedone holds a surprising amount of gunk. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her fans were mesmerized through the extraction process. One wrote: "This video is one of my favorites😍😍😍" Another Popaholic added, "sooooo satisfying." It really was. Dr. Pimple Popper deserves all the kudos for another job well done. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io