Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Angry' Comedones In New Youtube Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Youtube video, she helps a patient covered in red, inflamed comedones. It's not clear where the pimples popped up, but they are taking over the area. Dr. Pimple Popper used her aptly named comedone extractor tool to squeeze all the gunk out. Most pimples that dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, sees in her treatment room don't come with emotion. They are skin lesions after all. The pimples, like a chorizo-shaped lipoma, cysts stuffed with gnocchi, and a narwhal horn of a blackhead, are seriously impressive but lack any type of feeling. In her new Youtube video, it's a whole different emotional story. Her patient comes in with all kinds of bright red, inflamed comedones in a mystery area. Dr. Pimple Popper's fans are quick to call the bumps "angry," and they certainly look perturbed. The dermatologist is cool and calm as she assesses the procedure required, though. She explains in the caption, "Swappin’ Stories & POPPIN’ Comedones! 😎" and adds, "Nothing better than sharing stories with patients! Do you have a wisdom tooth story??" This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper slowly works her way from one clogged pore to the next. She uses her comedone extractor tool to press until each one is emptied completely. "That angry one needed to be popped😢" This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her fans are up in arms about the chosen pimples. One wrote, "Pop the big enflamed ones, or we riot! I knew she wasn't going to get them, but I still tortured myself by watching the video in its entirety." Same! This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io