Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Rare 'Blue' Steatocystoma In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a rare pimple growing on her forehead. The bump appears blue in color on the surface of the skin, but it's a steatocystoma. Dr. Pimple Popper squeezed all the yellow, buttery liquid out using her fingers. When Popaholics hear the type of pimple, they can pretty much envision what's about to pop out. Usually that's the case with the blackheads, whiteheads, and even steatocystomas found in dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper's office. Looks can be deceiving, though, as she reminds all her fans in her new Instagram video. Her patient has a rare steatocystoma on her forehead. What makes it so unique is the blue tint on the top of the skin. Steatocystomas are generally filled with buttery, yellow liquid. Dr. Pimple Popper has explained previously: "They occur most commonly on the chest, armpits, and neck. These can get quite large in size, but are often not very raised and are covered by normal looking skin. The contents of these cysts are more liquid and odorless, often clear or slightly yellow in color. These types of cysts, benign and rare, are compared to epidermoid cysts, and actually could be called truly "sebaceous cysts" because they begin in the sebaceous glands." This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This steatocystoma only looks blue on the surface of the skin. Once Dr. Pimple Popper starts squeezing it's all yellow, buttery goodness coming out. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Fans enjoyed the view, but were a bit confused by the colors: "Am I the only one that didn't see anything blue or is this like that dress test?" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io