Title: Olivia Wilde And Harry Styles' Astrological Compatibility

Text: Olivia Wilde is the woman of Harry Styles’ dreams. No, seriously. According to intuitive astrologer Rachel Lang, Olivia and Harry have what Lang calls a “spiritual connection that can feel out of this world.” Because Olivia’s Pisces Sun is at a favorable angle from Harry’s Neptune (the planet that rules the subconscious), Harry’s feelings are coming from somewhere much deeper within himself. So once the two started working together on the set of Olivia’s upcoming film, Don’t Worry Darling, when she selected him to take on a role, it’s likely Harry felt an instant pull to the director. Olivia, on the other hand, has been more publicly forthcoming about her feelings for Harry. She gushed about him in an Instagram post last month, applauding him for stepping into his role with humility and grace. It isn’t often that a man will take on a role in a woman-led film without hesitation or insecurity, she wrote. “No joke, it is harrrrrd to find actors who recognize why it might be worth it to allow for a woman to hold the spotlight,” adding that she’s blown away every day by Harry's talent and his ability to drive backward. The tone of the post was professional—a director showing love to an actor who’s done great work—but when it’s looked at through the lens of Olivia’s birth chart, her romantic connection with Harry becomes more apparent. Ahead, Lang examines both Olivia and Harry’s birth charts and explains exactly how this relationship went from a working one to something more. Venus is the reason Olivia and Harry have so much in common. "Olivia’s Venus, the planet of love and flirtation, is in Aquarius, Harry’s Sun sign," Lang points out. And Harry's Venus is also in Aquarius which means big things for their love life. Venuses in the same sign mean their are major similarities in how Harry and Olivia express affection. "It also shows that they can build a social life together, and that friendships will be a point of compatibility for them," says Lang. While they protect and maintain their private lives, when they do merge social groups, they don't have to stress much about making sure everyone gets along. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Their moons help them keep the peace.  The moon rules your emotions. And Harry's moon in Libra and Olivia's in Gemini (both air signs) indicate that the couple's emotions gel really well. "This is a couple who enjoys talking and never lacks for conversation," says Lang. "They feel right at home with one another, and given that they moved in together on Valentine’s Day, it’s going to be a romantic, loving home." And, typical of air signs, both Harry and Olivia dislike conflict, so chances are they hash things out immediately and calmly since keeping the peace is priority. Their fixed signs in Mars and Venus drive Olivia and Harry toward stability in their relationship. It's what allows them to stay committed to each other through the ups and downs, says Lang. Check out the couple's entire relationship timeline here: Olivia and Harry are each other’s biggest fans, thanks to Jupiter and Saturn. "Olivia’s Saturn, the planet of stability and structure, is conjunct Harry’s Jupiter," meaning the two planets line up perfectly. As as result, Lang says Olivia and Harry manifest their dreams together and support the other unconditionally. Because of Olivia's Pisces Sun, she's as much of a dreamer as Harry is, so at times, he might be the one encouraging her to go after the big plans she has lined up for herself.  And it's likely that Olivia grounds Harry's dreams in practicality, offering him actionable advice. It's also probably why they work so well together. "They are a power couple who offer a nice balance for one another," says Lang. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io