Title: The Best Sunglasses for Women In 2021

Text: Sure, the most important reason to wear sunglasses is to guard against eye diseases like macular degeneration, and protect the skin around your eyes from wrinkle-causing UV-damage...but it doesn't hurt to care that they're cute and can help you express your personal style, either. When it comes to the latter (cool-factor, IYW), the trickiest part of shopping for new sunglasses might just be figuring out what types of frames best suit your face shape. Most people's faces fall into one of five shapes: heart, square, round, diamond, or oval. Don't already know which one you are? Below, you'll find a breakdown of the common features associated with each, plus an example image for comparison's sake. And trust, you'll want to figure out your face shape before you buy a new pair of frames because doing so will lessen your chances of winding up with buyer's remorse—especially when shopping online. For instance, oval shaped lenses can balance out the strong jawline of a square-shaped face. Meanwhile, people with oval-shaped faces can rock an oversized frame like none other because the extra length above and below the frames prevents them from being swallowed by their sunnies. (Lucky you!) But if you're worried about getting it wrong, don't be! Many online retailers offer the option to try sunglasses on at home. So you can shop your heart-shaped face out (in your sweatpants if you want to!) and not make any commitments right away. Let the shopping begin! Jump To Your Face Shape Heart Square Round Diamond Oval Getty Images HEART-SHAPED FACE A heart-shaped face typically has a wide forehead and cheekbones with a narrow chin. Try choosing sunglasses that direct the eye downward to give the appearance of an elongated face. STYLES TO LOOK FOR: cat eye, square cat eye, flat top, rectangular frames, and aviators Women's SUPER by RetroSuperFuture® flat-top sunglasses J.Crew jcrew.com $170.00 SHOP NOW RECTANGLE 1969 ray ban ray-ban.com $169.00 SHOP NOW Getty Images SQUARE-SHAPED FACE A square-shaped face has a strong jawline and minimal curves to the cheekbones. The forehead tends to be broad. Choose any curved frame to soften sharp features and add some juxtaposition. STYLES TO LOOK FOR: oversized round, oval, cat eye, rectangle Nowhere Sunglasses Le Specs shopbop.com $63.20 SHOP NOW Courtesy BP. 51mm Rectangular Sunglasses BP nordstrom.com $15.00 SHOP NOW Getty Images ROUND-SHAPED FACE A round-shaped face has full cheekbones with a narrow forehead and jaw. The length of the face is the same size as the width of the face. As such, you can really play with extremes...just avoid oversized or round styles as neither will highlight your features, FWIW. STYLES TO LOOK FOR: wide rectangular frames, slim cat eye, retro square and a classic wayfarer Icy Sunglasses Quay shopbop.com $41.25 SHOP NOW Courtesy Vintage Retro Cateye Sunglasses for Women Bold Colorful Cat Eye UV400 Protection (Tortoise Shell Brown, 65) Freckles Mark amazon.com $11.98 SHOP NOW Women's Square Sunglasses with Smoke Gradient Lenses - A New Day™ Brown A New Day target.com $14.99 SHOP NOW Warby Parker Perkins Warby Parker warbyparker.com $95.00 SHOP NOW   Getty Images DIAMOND-SHAPED FACE A diamond-shaped face can be found when the width of the forehead is smaller than the width of the cheekbones. This face shape will also have a narrow chin that comes to a slight point. Lucky you...pretty much any frame style compliments your face shape! STYLES TO LOOK FOR: anything! experiment with fun shapes and styles Courtesy Chezi Women's Glitter Shell-effect Acetate Moon Star Accent Round Sunglasses, Pink, Medium Chezi amazon.com SHOP NOW Courtesy JUSLINK Oversized Sunglasses for Women Men, Square Flat Top Fashion Shades (Black) JUSLINK amazon.com $6.99 SHOP NOW 48mm Tiny Wire Oval Sunglasses BP. nordstrom.com $7.60 SHOP NOW Courtesy FEISEDY Vintage Slender Oval Sunglasses Small Metal Frame Candy Colors B2277 FEISEDY amazon.com $13.99 SHOP NOW Adulation Gray Cat Eye Sunglasses Le Specs Luxe saksfifthavenue.com $119.00 SHOP NOW Getty Images OVAL-SHAPED FACE An oval-shaped face, well...looks like an oval! This face shape has a balanced forehead, cheekbones and jawline. Ovals can rock all different sunglass shapes, so break out of your comfort zone and try something new. STYLES TO LOOK FOR: something edgy and stylish...any shape looks good on you! Courtesy Prada Women's Cinema Round Brow Bar Sunglasses, Pale Gold/Pale Gold, One Size Prada amazon.com $168.88 SHOP NOW Courtesy Sopaila Rimless Sunglasses for Women Round Flower Shaped Girls Fashion Vintage Eyewear,tea Sopaila amazon.com $6.99 SHOP NOW 57MM The Coupe Cateye Sunglasses Le Specs Luxe saksfifthavenue.com $119.00 SHOP NOW RB1972 54MM Octagonal Metal Sunglasses Ray-Ban saksfifthavenue.com $154.00 SHOP NOW Half-Rim Wire Sunglasses Tory Burch toryburch.com $180.00 SHOP NOW This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io