Title: Grassroots Fitness Hero Asma Pathan is Breaking Down Cultural Barriers & Getting Women Active

Text: The balmy end-of-summer in 2008 was a period of big change for school teacher Asma Pathan. Not only was she moving from her native Bangladesh to England, but she was also leaving behind a job and community she loved. Arriving in the UK, Asma initially tried to join the teaching profession but felt lost without the anchor of her main language or the familiarity she had left in Bangladesh. Then a leaflet dropped into her postbox and everything changed.  'I saw an advertisement for a ladies-only training course. It was called "gym instructor" and it was free. I thought, why not? If I'm qualified, it'll be another sort of teaching and I can teach different groups of people. So I went for it. I've always believed there's no limit to the knowledge you can gain. You have to go for it.' Asma's passion for knowledge would be the spark to spur her on, completing other qualifications and building a community of women who look to her for advice. Now, development officer for award-winning charity London Tigers, Asma's role has her at the helm of bringing others into the fold. Working with disadvantaged communities, Asma and London Tigers work hard to bring children and adults into fitness and sport who might otherwise not participate. Although Asma has people flocking to her classes now, it wasn't always easy. To begin with, she had to overcome the barriers keeping the women in her community out of exercise. 'I've always believed there's no limit to the knowledge you can gain. You have to go for it.' As a freshly qualified trainer, Asma started in an Islamic school in Stepney Green, trying to persuade mothers dropping off their children to join her for an exercise class. 'The first class, I only managed to get seven people to come. Three weeks after that, though, the number had doubled and continued to double each week. My role was to build up their confidence.'  Fortunately, the oscillating lockdowns of 2020 and 2021 have served Asma well, forcing her to consider new ways to continue teaching and nurturing her fitness community.  'From March 23rd 2020 – the first day of the first lockdown – I was receiving so many calls from ladies I taught saying they have high blood pressure or diabetes and my class was the way they were working on it. I told them to stay home and that I would think of something we could do instead.' Initially testing the concept on her London Tigers colleagues, Asma taught her first virtual class, feeling out whether it would be possible to teach her in-person class through screens, instead. 'By the third virtual session, the number of attendees was really growing. Now, we have about 60 people per class joining from all over the world.' Originally limited to people in the Tower Hamlets area, Asma's online classes now have people from Bangladesh, Birmingham, India, Canada and Spain tuning in regularly.  'In the pandemic, we have lost so many things but in a way, we have gained so many things, too.' One of the things Asma is keen to impress is the ways in which having to try new things has brought good to her community, as well. 'In the pandemic, we have lost so many things but in a way, we have gained so many things, too. Some of the ladies I teach had never used a device before lockdown, now they have learned how to use them. Their confidence has grown.'  Building confidence is something Asma is no stranger to – initially, she found it difficult to break through worries about not being able to communicate fully when she first came to England. 'When I came here, it took me a while to shine because English is not my main language. I tried to communicate but something would always hold me back and I worried about saying the wrong thing.' 'But then I thought of my mother – she left education after primary school and she has the most amazing confidence and never holds herself back. It taught me that it's not about right and wrong. Yes, I might say something wrong but if I can communicate that's the main thing. And that's important for our community, as well. 'There's a language barrier, some of them don't have that confidence or fear they will be laughed at and stay quiet instead. One thing I always tell them is that you have to believe in yourself – if you don't, who else will? 'If I build up that confidence in them, they'll never look back. That's the main thing.' *London Tigers is an award-winning charity engaging disadvantaged communities to improve their lives by upskilling people, keeping communities safe, improving health & wellbeing, providing sporting pathways and international development. Find them on Facebook and Instagram. 