Title: Shop the Lingerie Featured in Ari's "34+35 (Remix)" Music Video

Text: Ariana Grande's "34+35 (Remix)" music video featuring Doja Cat and Megan Thee Stallion just dropped. The video has all the Valentine's Day vibes given the silk robes, feathers, bustiers, and lace. If you were curious about where Ari, Meg, and Doja got their lingerie, you can shop the same exact styles below. In case you missed this music video drop, do yourself a favor: Stop reading now, and watch Ariana Grande's "34+35 (Remix)" above featuring Doja Cat and Megan Thee Stallion. NOW. Basically, it'll make you wish you had the same bougie girl's day with your BFFs at a fancy hotel wearing your finest lingerie. The trio have the whole space to themselves and lounge poolside with Champagne, order copious amounts of french fries and desserts (Baked Alaska, anyone?) via room service, and dance around in their swanky hotel room. I mean, if that doesn't sound like the perfect day, IDK what is. YouTube The video has all the Valentine's Day vibes given the silk robes, feathers, bustiers, and lace. If you were curious about where Ari, Meg, and Doja got their lingerie, you can shop the same. Exact. Styles! (They're all surprisingly still in stock...for now.)  Doja Cat's heart-printed suspender belt is part of the same set as Megan's pink bra, and they're both from Agent Provocateur. The latter ranges from sizes 32A through 38F, but certain sizes are already sold out. Same goes for the suspenders, so you gotta act fast! This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Ariana's black lace teddy is from Victoria's Secret and features a plunging neckline and cutout. For the vid, stylist Mimi Cuttrell added high-waisted black underwear from Fleur du Mal, so that the bottom of the bodysuit wasn't completely see-through. Now you can wear these pieces and pretend like you're the fourth friend in this remix music video. A girl can wish for a marble bathroom, right? This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io