Title: Chrissy Teigen Shared Her Ultimate Hack for Deep, Painful Spots

Text: There are many things to adore about Chrissy Teigen (like, for example her ingenious clapbacks, or the near-constant hair inspo, or her amazing levels of compassion). But another reason to love and protect her at all costs is her generosity with skincare recommendations - from the face oil she swears by, to breaking down her entire goddamn skincare ritual. The latest reveal she's made is - thank the lord - one for fellow acne sufferers. Chrissy's opened up about her acne in the past, and according to People magazine has now revealed one of her favourite go-to fixes for painful spots: ZitSticka's KILLA kits. ICYMI, ZitSticka KILLA kits comprise 8 SA cleaning swabs, and 8 microdart patches. Applied to clean skin (overnight if you can), these little patches deploy spot-dissolving ingredients into the source of a zit, to help speed up the cycle of the spot, aid healing and reduce inflammation. Boots Zitsticka Killa Spot Clarifying Patch Kit zitsticka £26.99 SHOP NOW Chrissy shared the patches to her IG story, recommending them as part of a spot-busting routine. As an acne sufferer myself, I feel Chrissy's pain when it comes to acne, and I've tried everything from salicylic acid to DNA hacking to in attempt to clear up monthly cysts. I also agree strongly with her tip-off. My current routine incorporates these stickers along with an SA face wash (I love this by Verso and this by CeraVe) when menstrual spots begin to rear their heads. Oh - and if you're looking for post-spot acne scar hacks, ZitSticka also have you sorted, with their HYPERFADE scar-reducing patches - also now a firm staple on my skincare shelf. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Cut through the noise and get practical, expert advice, home workouts, easy nutrition and more direct to your inbox. Sign up to the WOMEN'S HEALTH NEWSLETTER This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io