Title: 30 Sexy Christmas Gifts For 2020

Text: If you're not sure which way to go this gifting season—practical, lavish, barebones, or sexy—let me help you out: Go with sexy. Sexy Christmas gifts practically guarantee that whatever you give your partner will, uh, come back to you. And if you're showering a friend with a little somethin' somethin'? Helping them feel like a sex goddess is a surefire way to heat up their holiday szn. It'll for sure strengthen your bond—trust me. Think about it: Everyone wants to feel desired—so when your significant other unwraps a gift that screams "I want you"—even if it's one they thought they'd never use—your love life is sure to be as lit as that Christmas tree (or Hanukkah menorah). And if it's your bestie? You're giving them something they want but don't want to buy (or choose) themselves. Besides, your trusted rec will be much appreciated. Of course, there's a fine line between sexy Christmas gifts that are actually sexy and ones that are kinda...icky. Like, there are a million and one spicy options out there. So to help you out a bit (you're welcome), here's the ultimate list of the best sexy Christmas gifts to give in 2020, in exceptionally good taste. From luxurious massage oils to bondage tape and butt plugs, these picks will turn up the heat this winter (so cliche, but so true), and who knows? You might discover something new about your own sexy time preferences. Happy holidays, ya filthy animals! 1. A Nipple and Clit Clamp Necklace Adjustable Nipple Clamps & Clit Clamp Lux Fetish overkink.com $28.99 SHOP NOW Sexy body chain or nipple clamp? Trick question! This pretty little number from Unbound actually does both. It's plated in 14K gold, so it'll take every outfit up a notch. And it doubles as a nipple and clitoris clamp—complete with adjustable pressure options. Buy one for yourself or your stylish friend who'll squeal with delight by her new accessory-slash-toy. 2. A Cozy Nightshirt  Women's Cotton Nightshirt Ekouaer amazon.com $26.99 SHOP NOW Silk and satin aren't for everyone, especially if it means waking up all sticky and sweaty. If you're looking to gift a little more breathability in a nightie that begs to be unbuttoned, opt for this cotton nightshirt. In it, the wearer will be able to channel every rom-com scene where a hot woman slinks around the house in their partner's butt-skimming shirt. Only this time, it won't be borrowed (and it'll be way more flattering...).  3. A Couples Vibrator This little guy is OH-so-great for both the giver and the receiver. The insertable vibrator pairs with an app and remote control that your partner can use to his or her delight, plus slides into the vagina during sex to tickle both parties. With 10 intensity levels (yeehaw!), the We-Vibe Match is a couples sex toy everyone can enjoy. 4. Matching Lingerie CantiqLA Bandage Boyshorts cantiqLA cantiqla.com $35.00 SHOP NOW Lingerie isn’t just for cis women! This incredible L.A.-based lingerie line makes underwear to accommodate all types of genitals, so you can get matching sets for both you and your partner. If lace isn’t your thing, mesh might be the way to go. Check out this major selection by Lara Intimates. 5. A Helpful Massage Tool Love receiving massages but hate giving them? (I feel you.) This hand-like tool helps you knead into your S.O.'s knots and kinks without creating any for yourself. Plus, they'll be more inclined to go to town on your shoulders with this nifty toy, too, so it's a win for both of you. 6. Low-Rise Thong Signature Lace Low Rise Thong HANKY PANKY nordstrom.com $22.00 SHOP NOW Warning: This sexy lace thong is sure to put your partner in the mood, so maybe gift this one somewhere ~private~ and not in front of the entire fam. 7. A Panty Vibrator We-Vibe Moxie Wearable Vibrating Toy Teasing Clit Vibrator with Remote Control & App for Women We-Vibe amazon.com $122.55 SHOP NOW The We-Vibe Moxie is the ultimate gift for both of you—your partner gets to control the vibrator from afar (via the mobile app or the remote control), and you get to enjoy all the powerful rumbling without knowing what's come next. It's the perfect sexy prezzie for all-day foreplay, long-distance couples, or holidays not spent together. 8. A Satin Nightie  Silk Chemise soma soma.com $79.98 SHOP NOW After a romp in the sheets, one of the greatest feelings is throwing on silky pajamas. And there's a good chance this take on the trendy slip dress will satisfy that. It offers a little peek to what's underneath with the added bonus of feeling silky smooth—which is basically like being touched all over again. Gift it to a pal who needs some extra pampering this holiday season—or throw it on your own wish list, because #need. 9. A Sex Pillow Liberator Whirl Liberator babeland.com $149.99 SHOP NOW Help your shy friend take things up a notch by giving them this special sex pillow. They can use it to elevate their hips while experimenting with new sex positions (for deeper penetration) or lean on it for support during more intricate moves. Either way, win-win. 10. Nonsticky Lube  In search of something a little smaller to keep at bae's? Try this bottle from Überlube. Nice silicone lube is the stuff of sex dreams—including anal, btw—especially when it doesn't dry up or create a sticky situation. This is the sexy equivalent to body wash and deodorant stocking stuffers. (You know: essential, but stuff people hate buying for themselves...) 11. Sexy Bath Salts soak no. 1 Maude getmaude.com $18.00 SHOP NOW It's hard to feel sexy when you're stressed AF. Which is why sexual-wellness brand Maude released a line of bath products, to help you wind down after a long day and get you ready for more frisky activities. This Soak salt blend is perfect for some much needed me-time or joint baths—the scent (amber, cedar leaf, clove, lemongrass, medjool date) is intoxicating either way.  12. A Vibrator Necklace Vesper Vibrator Necklace Crave thegrommet.com $69.00 SHOP NOW This sleek vibe doubles as a necklace that anyone could totally wear in front of their grandmother without her knowing its true function. Better yet, get it for your grandmother. You go, grandma. 13. CBD Oil High CBD Formula Body Oil 100mg Lord Jones sephora.com $65.00 SHOP NOW It's safe to say that CBD is here to stay. This body oil is perfect for a super relaxing massage, thanks to cannabidiol's natural calming properties. 14. Fancy Massage Oil 'Santal 33' Body Oil LE LABO nordstrom.com $70.00 SHOP NOW For the nights (or mornings or afternoons) when you want to ~take your time~, easing into sex with a massage is clutch. Nothing screams intimacy like the sexy gift of slow and gentle touching—especially when a luxe and lavish massage oil is involved. This cold-weather-perfect one from Le Labo has notes of violet, cardamom, and leather, and softens skin on contact. Worth every penny. 15. An Oral-Sex Simulator Girl's Best Friend 2-in-1 Vibrator Sweet Vibrations amazon.com $54.99 SHOP NOW If your friend is perpetually single or going through a recent breakup, brighten up her holiday season with the sexiest gift of them all: a toy that mimics cunnilingus. The Girl’s Best Friend (a very fitting name) sucks and vibrates to make her forget about her ex…in minutes. 16. Luxe Cuffs ETHEREA Silk Cuffs Lelo lelo.com $59.00 SHOP NOW Who said handcuffs had to be uncomfortable (metal) or cheap-looking (feathers)? This set from Lelo is anything but, thanks to fine suede and silk fabrics and a tie-adjustable closure. Put them on your wrists or ankles (in red or black if purple isn't your thing) and let the ~fun~ begin. 17. Nipple Covers  Nordstrom Nippies by Bristols Six Iridescent Star Nipple Covers BRISTOLS 6 nordstrom.com $12.00 SHOP NOW Okay, how cute are these sequin nipple covers? They stick to your breasts via silicone adhesive, to remind you (and your partner) that you are the star of the show. 18. Versatile Bondage Tape Bondage Tape Lovehoney lovehoney.com $8.99 SHOP NOW If you're ready to experiment with a little good old-fashioned BDSM fun ('tis the season of giving, so now is the time!), look no further than this inexpensive and awesome roll of bondage tape. The tape is made of PVC so it sticks to itself (not your hair), and it works well as a blindfold, gag, restraint, or wrap. Plus, at only $9 a roll, you have 65 feet to play with...options! 19. A Lipstick Vibrator  CalExotics Hide & Play Lipstick Compact Vibe MassagerBullet CalExotics amazon.com $17.23 SHOP NOW Give the gift of lipstick...as a vibrator. At just $20 (a steal), this travel-friendly vibe is perfect for the pal or roommate who needs to get theirs when they're home for the holidays (or who's trying to have quiet sex amid their S.O.'s family). 20. A Massage Candle Lelo Flickering Touch Massage Candle lelo lelo.com $34.90 Shop Now Lelo's massage candle promises to set the mood and get the sexy touching started. Doubling as a candle and massage oil (just pour the melted wax on their back when it's no longer burning hot), this is the perfect gift to pair with a “Good for One Massage” coupon. 21. A Cool Cock Ring Tor 2 Vibrating Ring LELO babeland.com $149.00 SHOP NOW A cock ring that doesn't look like a cock ring might be the way to go in the name of sexy holiday gifts. It'll spice up every kind of penetration for each party (more fullness for you, vibration for both). This one from Lelo (who else?) is much less intimidating than most rings out there, so he'll actually, ya know, use it.  22. A Finger Vibrator Fin Finger Vibe Dame Products babeland.com $85.00 SHOP NOW It wouldn’t be a gift guide without a mention of this bad boy. The Fin is the perfect vibrator for people who want a little toy play while being penetrated, since it slips right onto your finger. Buy one for yourself or your sister/work wife/friend who has trouble reaching orgasm from sex alone. (Skeptical? Take a look at WH's Fin review here.)  23. Cutest Vibe Ever Organic Loven Rianne S Heart Vibe Rianne S organicloven.com $34.99 SHOP NOW What better way to express your love than with a 10-speed vibrator shaped as a heart? This strikes the perfect balance between sentimental and practical. Ideal, no? <3 24. A Moisture-Resistant Blanket Liberator Fascinator Throes Liberator babeland.com $130.00 SHOP NOW Sex is messy. Got a germ freak in your life? Gift them this blanket so they never have to fall asleep in those sexy juices again. Plus, it’s machine-washable—easy peasy. 25. A Cheeky Clutch Sex Things Pouch womenshealthmag.com $25.00 SHOP NOW Any penis-loving friend will laugh (and love) when they receive this sexy yet straightforward Christmas gift. She can throw condoms, lube, tampons, whatever inside to have all her goodies in one handy place. 26. A Sexy Bath Bomb Sex Goddess Bomb Fizzie CookiesGoddessShoppe etsy.com $9.47 SHOP NOW Perfect for a baller on a budget, get your partner or cousin a not-too-suggestive bath bomb and a bottle of bubbly, to do with them what they will. Waterproof sex toy, optional. 27. A Butt Plug njoy Pure Plug njoy lovehoney.com $109.99 SHOP NOW This butt plug is kind of fancy-looking, right? It's a beginner- to intermediate-friendly toy for those interested in anal play—including the men in your life who might be interested in exploring that prostate pleasure center. 28. Mystery Vibe Crescendo  Luxury Vibrator Mystery Vibe mysteryvibe.com $199.00 Shop Now This fun bendy vibrator from MysteryVibe is a very cool toy that is relatively new to the scene, and one that works for any gender. Able to bend in every which way, this baby will find alllll your loved one’s hot spots. So gift it, like now.   29. Le Wand Petite Le Wand Le Wand Petite Le Wand babeland.com $139.99 Shop Now A tried-and-true favorite, this little wand (a mini version of the OG award-winning Le Wand) packs a ton of power into a small toy. Plus, you can always pretend it’s a neck massager if your gift recipient is on the shy side. (Trust me, she'll thank you.) 30. Fishnet Stockings Nordstrom Tricot Fishnet Tights OROBLU nordstrom.com $22.00 SHOP NOW These stockings elongate your legs and ooze serious sex appeal, so gift 'em to yourself and wear them under your clothes. They'll all but guarantee a quickie when you walk in the door at home. Want to go beyond the tangible gifts? Actions speak louder than gifts, after all. So here are a couple of sexy ways to keep on giving this Christmas and holiday season: 1. Ethical Porn Did you know that there is such a thing as ethical porn? Well there is and you can’t find it on PornHub, but you can find a lot of options on the The Center For Sexual Pleasure And Health's website. Gift your sweetie some seriously quality porn this holiday season and never accidentally watch "Two Girls, One Cup" again. 2. Sex-Positive Charitable Donations Want to give a charitable present this year? Check out queer youth-saving Trevor Project and the sex-educating masters at the CSPH. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io