Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Extracts 'Freshly Squeezed' Blackhead On Instagram

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helped a patient with an "intimidating blackhead." The giant clogged pore was almost too big for her comedone extractor tool. Dr. Pimple Popper pressed and squeezed until all the gunk came out. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is not afraid of big, stubborn pimples. Her patients bring in all kinds of lumps and bumps, and she is always the professional. Whether she's tackling a massive blackhead, pulling out a lipoma, or squeezing pasta from steatocystomas, it's all super satisfying to watch. In Dr. Pimple Popper's latest Instagram video, she admits that the pimple is "non-intimidating." Even through the screen, this blackhead looks ginormous and terrifying. That clearly doesn't deter the doc, though. She aims with her comedone extractor tool and hits it right on target. Dr. Pimple Popper gives her fresh take on the blackhead pop in the caption: "A freshly SQUEEZED pop to start your morning! 🍊 #drpimplepopper #oddlysatisfying" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper slices the blackhead open and dives in with her comedone extractor tool. One impressed fan commented, "Such a deep one 😮" It certainly was. Each time she squeezed, the gunk kept erupting out of the seemingly bottomless blackhead. Eventually, Dr. Pimple Popper dug everything out and finished the job. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Fans cheered her on in the comments. One wrote: "Beautiful 👏" And another Popaholic called the pop "fantastic." One fan commented, "Not disgusting at all! We love those! 😂" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io