Title: 26 Best High Protein Snacks to Get You Through The Day

Text: Whilst you could argue (and, honestly, we wouldn't put up a fight) that PB toast is the preferred high protein snack of choice, you know what they say: variety is the spice of life. It's good to mix things up once in a while, whilst still fuelling up with nutritious foods.  Why is protein important? Protein is the macronutrient your body uses to repair muscle tissue, build hormones, and more. Plus, it's the building block of your bones, muscles, cartilage, skin, and blood. It's essential for improving fitness and generally speeds up your training gains. 'Protein is the most important nutrient for positively changing body composition,' says Xander Pipe, fitness nutrition coach and founder of meal delivery service The Key To Food. 'Although do note—it's important to spread your intake throughout the day in order for your body to digest it. If you eat too much in one sitting, it can place strain on your kidneys.' The recommended daily intake of protein for women is 45g so, for reference: A standard chicken breast contains roughly 26g Two large eggs contain around 12g Two tbsps peanut butter contains roughly 7g Why eat high protein snacks? High protein snacks, particularly those with a combination of carbohydrates and other essential nutrients, can aid with recovery post-workout. And, they can also help you to reach your recommended daily intake if you struggle to incorporate enough protein into meals (which is common amongst those following a vegetarian or vegan diet). High protein snacks are also handy for helping you keep nourished on busy days, requiring minimal prep and no tapping into your creativity stores (because how hard is coming up with an inventive and nutritious snack when you're stressed?). That in mind, we have rounded up the crème de la crème of high protein snacks; all being flavoursome, rich in protein, and many being travel-friendly for refuelling on-the-go too. These little life-savers have been hand-picked and are nutrition expert-approved. Keep scrolling for 26 handy, high protein snacks. Fuel up. Remember that you should always aim to get the majority of your nutrients from whole foods, these snacks are great for convenience but certainly no replacement for a balanced and varied nutrient dense diet. 26 best high protein snacks