Title: The 8 Best Ways To Get Beach Waves

Text: You’ll have to think hard to come up with a hairstyle more beloved than beachy waves. They’re versatile, universally flattering. Whether you want to spend bonding time with your hot tools or opt for a “just woke up like this” situation, there are plenty of options in between. “I'm really passionate about all natural hair textures and different ways of creating natural looking hair textures,” says Bryce Scarlett, Moroccanoil Celebrity Hairstylist. As the mane man behind Kaia Gerber, Gigi Hadid and Lily Rose Depp, to name a few, he’s aced getting practically every type of beachy wave out there. One of the best things about beachy waves is there are so many styles that fall in the category, so you can make the look your own. “When people request beach waves, they're usually referring to soft waves with straighter ends created by wrapping hair around a wand iron or bending into the hair with a flat iron,” Scarlett says. His go-to technique and preferred tool is using a flatiron. “I love the Moroccanoil Perfectly Polished Titanium Flat Iron—its beveled edges and pressure set plates make it so easy to gently bend into the hair. I use a hydrating serum or leave-in conditioner on the ends of the hair and then a dry texturizing spray throughout.” But no hot tools are needed to get the look. Scarlett says it’s a cinch to get beachy waves sans styling tools too—simply coat wet hair in a styling lotion and let it dry in two braids. While there are plenty of methods for getting beachy waves, it’s best to opt for one that works with your hair type. “If you have very fine hair, a salt spray may be a great approach to try,” Scarlett says. “When trying to achieve beach waves or any natural looking hair texture, the biggest mistake you can make is being afraid of making mistakes—Nothing should be too perfect or symmetrical. Don’t be afraid to try layering products either. I often use dry shampoo, dry texture spray, hairspray, and a pomade.” To help you get the perfect beachy waves at home, check out these tutorials that take out all the guesswork. Some don’t even require hot tools, so there’s an option for everyone. 1. Overnight Beach Waves This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Talk about beauty sleep—you can get the look while you snooze! Even better? You can skip the hot tools and wait until your hair is 90% dry before you prep it at bedtime. Start by leaving the front pieces of your hair out, then flip your head over like you’re going to make a high pony on top of your head, separate into three equal sections, then make a regular braid. Don’t make it too tight, which will prevent volume, and leave an inch and a half out at the bottom so hair doesn’t get crinkly, and finally secure it with an elastic. In the morning, gently unravel the braid and shake out hair from the roots. 2. The Easiest Loose Beach Waves This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. If you struggle to do anything more than a ponytail, this video is for you. It breaks down getting loose waves into an easy-to-follow, foolproof method. You’ll want to use a curling iron instead of a wand for this one, since it’s a little more user friendly. And vlogger Allana Davison says, these will give you that “I just went surfing at the beach but not because I look more fabulous than that, but I have the beachy hair of my dreams kind of look.” Who doesn’t want that? 3. Curling Iron Beach Waves This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The most traditional way to get beachy waves is with a curling iron. Opt for a barrel that’s approximately one-inch in diameter, , and be sure to apply a heat protectant to your hair before styling. Simply shake out your hair and you’re ready to go. 4. The Basic Flatiron Wave This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Maybe it’s just us, but it can be tough to wrap your head around using a flatiron for curling your hair when it’s designed to straighten it! However, there’s a reason flatiron waves are a thing, and while it might sound counterintuitive, they’re easy to do. This video from Moroccanoil shows you the basic moves. 5. S-Shaped Beach Waves This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. You can create beautiful, s-shaped beachy bends with a few simple steps—and all you need is a flat iron and a heat protectant. If you have curly hair, start by straightening your strands. Then, you can use the very same device to create effortless-looking bends simply by rotating the iron back and forth as you glide it down each section of hair. 6. Headband Beach Waves This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Leave it to Luxy Hair to come up with yet another genius beauty hack for beach waves that doesn’t require heat styling. Using a cotton headband, , twist and wrap your hair around the base of the band to achieve that undone, straight-off-the-sand look. 7. Beach Waves For Short Hair This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Although it might take some practice, creating textured waves on even the shortest of hairstyles can be done. All it requires is one-inch curling iron and a flick of the wrist. Pro tip: After you finish curling your entire head, be sure to before you begin to brush out the curls to ensure they stay. 8. Five-Minute Beach Waves This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Beachy waves don’t typically start at the root, so it makes total sense to start curling from your ponytail (opt for ). This hair hack can also help if you have problems sectioning off your hair or reaching the back pieces. Plus, it’s an amazing time-saver.  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io