Title: Breaking: Kim Kardashian Has Filed for Divorce from Kanye West

Text: Kim Kardashian has officially filed for divorce from Kanye West, multiple sources including TMZ and E! News report. According to TMZ, the divorce is as "amicable as a divorce can be," and the couple plan to split legal and physical custody of their four children—with a plan in place to co-parent. Sources say Kanye is fine with the custody arrangement, and that there is a prenup in place that "neither party is contesting." The divorce documents were filed by Kim's attorney Laura Wasser, and they don't list a date of separation (instead it's listed as TBD). An insider also told E! News that "It's gotten to the point where they haven't spent time together as a married couple in months. They've seen each other for the sake of the kids but have been living separately. Kim knows the marriage is over. She's known for a while." The Stuff Cosmo Readers Are Shopping Right Now The Capsule Travel Container Cadence $14.00 shop You betcha these little magnetic travel containers are TSA-approved. Plus, they're super cute. Slimming Booty Leggings SEASUM $26.99 shop According to TikTok, these leggings will make your ass look like a juicy snacc. One-Step Hair Dryer and Volumizer REVLON $59.99 $41.99 (30% off) shop A cult-icon for a reason, this is the best hair-dryer brush overall. KISS Magnetic Eyeliner & Lash Kit $16.99 shop If “sandwich” magnetic lashes aren’t for you, try this genius magnetic eyeliner. Soraya Wave Lelo $249.00 shop If you want a rabbit that does more than just vibrate in place, this is it. Laser Hair Removal Tool MiSMON $239.99 $189.99 (21% off) shop This is hands-down the best at-home laser hair removal product for leg hair. Ceramic Flat Iron Hair Straightener HSI PROFESSIONAL $44.95 shop More than 28,000 reviewers say this is the best hair straightener on Amazon. Floral Lace Cheeky with X Charm Savage x Fenty $19.95 shop Cheeky, lacy, and oh so sexy. No wonder they're a bestseller. You love all the deets on celeb gossip. So do we. Let’s overanalyze them together. ✔️ This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io