Title: 18 Best Massage Guns 2021 for Every Budget, Starting at £50

Text: The best massage guns are the impossibly cool but pricey bit of tech currently on the wellness-scene. With brands such as Theragun spotted in the hands of gym-loving celebrities and elite athletes, there's something to be said for this muscle-releasing piece of kit. Consider it the grown-up cousin of the foam roller collecting dust under your bed. To their credit, they've stuck around for a while now, getting better and better with each passing year. From Therabody (the rebranded makers of Theragun), who recently celebrated their fifth anniversary to the advent of cheaper but still good muscle guns, the massage gun market is getting busier by the minute. What does a massage gun do? Much like going for a massage (remember those?), a muscle gun helps to reduce inflammation by flushing out your muscle tissues of fluids built up by exercise and daily bodily stress. They use percussive therapy – repeated strikes to help relax muscle tension and alleviate soreness, which if you suffer from regular DOMs (delayed onset muscle soreness) can be a real lifesaver.  How to use a massage gun Perfect for use in a similar way that you would a foam roller; either before exercise to activate muscles and increase blood flow, or after to release tension and prevent DOMS – muscle guns are the piece of kit your body will thank you for. Try to keep the head straight onto the body as you work, the face of the muscle gun head or attachment should be in contact with the muscle you're trying to massage. Are cheap massage guns any good? Cheap massage guns are a bit of a mixed bag. On the one hand, you can save serious coin and get a similar result – if you manage to find a good cheap muscle gun that doesn't skimp on tech or design. Most cheap massage guns tend to have harder attachment heads (which make for a more uncomfortable experience) or shorter battery life or length of product-life. If there's the choice between a cheap muscle gun and a more expensive massage gun that's on sale, we'd always suggest going with the one that looks like it'll last the longest and is the most specced out. If it comes with a warranty, even better. 18 massage guns to shop now So, with your best health in mind, here are the 18 best massage guns on the market right now. You! Are! Welcome!