Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops 'Crepe Paper' Pilar Cyst In Youtube Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a sizable cyst in the middle on her scalp. It's hiding under all her hair, but it's not sticking around much longer. Dr. Pimple Popper slices it open and pulls a long stream of "crepe paper" from the pilar cyst. You could say dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is a head above the rest. She's the fan fave doc Popaholics count on for all the satisfying pimple popping. The derm is also literally popping above her patient's head in her latest Youtube video. Dr. Pimple Popper gives a sneak peek on Instagram with a quick clip before diving into the whole popping party on Youtube. She wrote in the caption: "Need some crepe paper? This cyst has quite the stash! Pilar cysts are kinda like a party - and this one brought it's own streamers!" (More on that "party" portion in a sec.) This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper added some cyst knowledge for all the fans who want some edu-tainment. "A pilar cyst, also known as a trichilemmal or isthmus-catagen cyst, is a benign (non-life-threatening) growth that, upon examination, looks identical to the more common epidermoid cyst, except that 90% of pilar cysts occur on the scalp. They tend to be more mobile and firmer than epidermoid cysts, and are derived from a different part of the hair follicle. The internal contents tend to be more 'homogenous' and smooth." Fans have so many questions from the jump. One asked, "How come some of these pop out like a little bean or ball but then some wriggle like this one?" This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper doesn't answer it, but she's focused on the cyst in her hands. She sliced it open and got right to squeezing. As the fan noted, this pimple doesn't come out whole and intact. Instead, all the contents emerge in a long stream of "crepe paper" or "streamers." Then, Dr. Pimple Popper pulls out the cyst sac, which means the pop and the party are done. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io