Title: Sofía Vergara And Joe Manganiello's Astrological Compatibility

Text: For Sofía Vergara and Joe Manganiello, balance is key—unsurprising considering their sun signs are total opposites. Sofía’s Cancer and Joe’s Capricorn bring out the best in each other, says Rachel Lang, intuitive astrologer. “With her Cancer Sun, Sofía can be very nurturing, and Joe, as the Capricorn, is likely to be thinking of all the ways they can work together,” she says. He probably asks her to be a part of the projects he’s working on because of how ambitious she is, while Sofía takes care to make their home a warm and cozy place for them to unwind. Their relationship’s not short on passion either, Lang points out. “Couples born in opposite sun signs tend to have a strong attraction to one another.” And while it’s great for the romantic aspect of their relationship, it can make for a bit of competition in their relationship, too. (But more on that in a bit.) This passion, for the most part, reflects a mutual ambition. Their magnetic attraction keeps them together for the long haul, despite super-packed schedules. “Sofía and Joe have a good mix of the astrological signatures,” says Lang, meaning they are compatible in a number of ways including friendship, communication, and passion. Ahead, she breaks down exactly how their charts interact with one another and what that means for Sofía and Joe's love life. Jupiter and Venus are the reason Sofía and Joe are each other's biggest fans. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Joe's Jupiter, the planet of freedom and exploration, is well-positioned from Sofía's Sun and Sofía's Jupiter is very close to Joe's sun. "The influence of Jupiter is strongly featured in their charts, making them a couple that dreams together and supports one another in fulfilling their dreams," Lang explains. "They likely talk about all they want to do together—where they’d like to travel and what they’d like to create. Even if those ideas never get off the ground, they enjoy thinking of what’s possible together."  Venus is helping them out in that department, too. And sure, you might think Venus, the planet that rules love, dictates all things romance in a relationship, but the planet also helps foster friendships. Venus is all about unity, whatever that might look like for two people. And in Sofía and Joe's case, Venus has made them friends as well as lovers. They can easily laugh with one another, Lang says. "And when they fight, they probably want to resolve things as soon as possible to establish a sense of harmony." Mercury and Saturn are responsible for their communication skills.  Mercury is the planet of communication. "Sofía's Mercury in Leo shows someone who’s expressive and very creative. Her Mercury is also right next to the asteroid Pallas, which shows she’s the type of person who feels passionate about helping others or advocating for a cause," says Lang. But because the placement of Joe's Saturn doesn't quite favor Sofía's Mercury, she can get frustrated with Joe when he doesn't match her intensity. "Sometimes," Lang says, "this can be a challenging dynamic for Sofía because she might feel like he’s not on the same page." But Lang's not worried. Saturn offers stability, she says. So, while communication isn't always smooth sailing, Joe and Sofía grow when they work to improve it.  Mars brings on the passion in Sofía and Joe's relationship. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. That passion, while romantic, can also trigger Sofía and Joe's tempers, says Lang. Because of where each of their Mars' is positioned, they feel competitive with one another sometimes. But the occasional power struggle never lasts long. "They find ways to work as a team without letting their egos get in the way," she says. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io