Title: Lindsey Vonn's Abs Look Super Fit In New Bikini Instagram Photo

Text: Lindsey Vonn, 36, showed off her toned abs, arms, and legs in her Instagram Stories. In the photo, she rocks a cute black bikini while standing in the ocean for Earth Day. The Olympic skier previously shared a video of her vacation workout on the beach. Lindsey Vonn is vacationing someplace tropical, and she’s got the stunning pics to prove it. The retired Olympic skier, 36, shared a photo on her Instagram Story of herself in a bikini, holding a rock while standing in turquoise water. "Happy Earth Day!" she wrote over top. The scenery is stunning, but it’s hard to miss Lindsey looking pretty stunning herself. Her legs and arms are super toned, and she’s definitely rocking some six-pack abs. Lindsey doesn’t look that fit by accident, though. She’s been working incredibly hard at the gym with celebrity trainer Gunnar Peterson, and has even been working up a sweat on vacation. Lindsey dropped a video earlier this week of herself sweating it out on the beach, working through core moves like side plank dips on the sand and back extensions over a board. She followed that up with some beach sprints and weighted reverse squats with tricep extensions using beach rocks. Lindsey Vonn / Instagram Stories She clearly went all in—by the end, Lindsey smiles as sweat drips off her face. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. But this is hardly shocking for the Olympian. In late March, she shared a video on Instagram of herself working out on vacation, doing things like weighted squats, rowing, and using the elliptical in an open-air gym next to a gorgeous ocean view. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Aaand she also posted a series of bikini pics after that. Because, why not? This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Lindsey previously told Women’s Health that exercising helps her stay physically and mentally healthy. "I just like pushing myself," she said. "I like feeling strong, and when I feel physically strong, I feel so much more mentally strong. When I work out, I feel like I'm healthier and more confident. I've achieved something, no matter how small." If she gets a few gorgeous bikini shots out of it, too, so be it. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io