Title: The Best Exercise To Do If You Can't Do Burpees

Text: If you hate burpees, listen up – mega PT Kayla Itsines has a low-impact alternative to take the 'urgh' factor out of your home workouts. Brilliant for those suffering from painful joints or just a deep dislike for explosive plyometric movements, Itsines' suggested swap is kind on your knees and perfect for beginners. 'I encourage women to modify exercises to suit their needs and ability,' she says and, tbh, we couldn't agree more. Why slog through something that doesn't work for you when there are plenty of exercises that will, right? Right.  Scroll on for the low-impact move Itsines' wants you to swap your burpees out for. Only if you want to, of course. If you love a burpee, have at them. This is for those of you who dread the thought of doing one more blasted rep.  Kayla Itsines' low-impact burpee alternative 'To replace a burpee with a low-intensity and low-impact exercise you could do a rocking chair push up,' Itsines says. 'If you’re starting out, drop to your knees for the push-up and then back up to your toes for the rocking chair.' 'Similar to a burpee, this exercise works your whole body and is a great low impact alternative.' Sound good? Read on for your need to knows. How to do a rocking chair push-up This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This short video from Kore Nutrition will help break down each part of the movement. First, you want to perform a push-up with your knees on the ground, then come up on your toes in an all-fours position to push back into a rocking chair position. That's one rep. Protect your wrists and knees with a cushioned yoga mat £18.99 Lions Non-Slip Yoga Mat SHOP £26.99 Eco Friendly Yoga Mat SHOP £40 Sweaty Betty Eco Yoga Mat SHOP £48 Lululemon Reversible Yoga Mat 3mm SHOP Cut through the noise and get practical, expert advice, home workouts, easy nutrition and more direct to your inbox. Sign up to the WOMEN'S HEALTH NEWSLETTER Morgan Fargo Morgan is WH’s digital fitness writer with a penchant for brutal HIIT classes and thick post-workout smoothies. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io