Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Squeezes Gushing 'Waterfall' Cyst In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she squeezed a giant cyst in the middle of her patient's back. It was inflamed and filled with liquid ready to burst out. When Dr. Pimple Popper squeezed, all the contents gushed out like a waterfall. After two days of warm compresses, a giant back cyst is ready for dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper. Upon first glance, this cyst looks angry. It looks like a giant bruise on her patient's back, but you know it's filled with all kinds of satisfying surprises. Leave it to Dr. Pimple Popper to get them out in the open. It all goes down in her latest Instagram video. Dr. Pimple Popper explained what she's up to in the caption: "A Cyst waterfall in honor of Earth Day! 🌍💦 #drpimplepopper" What better way to celebrate Earth Day than with a monster of cyst? This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The video begins with a jaw-dropping view of the cyst. It's taking over the patient's back, but Dr. Pimple Popper is ready to go. Like she mentioned, it's already prepped with warm compresses. She slices an opening in the bottom of the cyst to release what's stuffed inside. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This cyst was filled to the point of bursting, and it let loose. A gushing stream of gunk came out with each push from Dr. Pimple Popper. It gets the fans talking in the comments. One wrote, "My all time favorite" Another fan added: "That looks angry!!" One Popaholic honed in on the grand finale: "Oooo that last second squirt!! 🙌" From start to finish, this waterfall cyst was a satisfying popping extravaganza. Brb watching it again. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io