Title: 9 Worst Things About Having Sex On The Beach

Text: In the movies, when a couple has sex on the beach, it's always spontaneous, romantic, almost magical. But let's be real, if you try to do that, you'll likely end up with sand where it's not supposed to be—and not much else. That doesn't mean you can't have beach sex, it just means you need to prepare before you take the plunge. "The most important thing is to plan in advance," says Janet Brito, PhD, a sexologist and clinical psychologist in Honolulu (so you know she knows her beaches). She even suggests running through a few "what if" scenarios—like "What if it starts raining?"—to make sure you've covered all your bases. That might sound like work (the opposite of what sex is supposed to be), but think of it like planning a mini-vacation. You're giving yourself and your sexual partner something to look forward to, which can only help up the ante when the moment finally comes. Besides checking your weather app for rain, these expert-approved tips will help ensure having sex on the beach is actually fun: 1. Make sure it's legal. Nothing kills the ~vibe~ faster than getting arrested (real handcuffs are way less sexy than furry ones, after all). So before you have your romp in the hay sand, "make sure you understand the laws around having sex in a public area," Brito says. Yes, having sex in a semi-forbidden place is a big part of what makes it so hot, but it’s not worth getting a criminal record. Imagine trying to explain that in your next job interview… 2. Find a private and secluded beach. This might seem obvious, but just in case you thought about banging out a quickie on a popular beach—don’t. "The more isolated, the better, so you can really let loose and avoid someone walking by," Brito says. Depending on your locale, you might have to wait until nightfall for the beach to clear out, but hey, there's nothing better than making love in the moonlight, right? This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. 3. Come prepared. You want to be spontaneous, sure, but you also don’t want to get sand (or anything else) in your vagina. To increase your level of comfort and decrease friction burns, Brito recommends putting together a little sex on the beach kit that includes: or an oversized blanket  While it isn’t necessary to bring lube, if you know that makes sex more enjoyable for you, pack it. Don’t substitute sunscreen for lube, either, since that can cause infection or disintegrate latex condoms, according to Brito. 4. Wear something that is easy to take off. You want to choose an outfit that's sexy, sure, but you also want it to be functional because, duh. Brito recommends a sarong or stretchy shorts. (To prevent insect bites, you should also consider wearing some bug repellent, too.) Want more hot AF sex tips? Ask these grandmas: 5. Choose your beach sex spot wisely. Look for an area that’s clear of debris and relatively level. Oh, and make sure you’re far enough away from the ocean so, you know, the tide won’t roll in unexpectedly. 6. Set the scene. Once you’ve found the perfect spot, Brito suggests keeping your socks and covered shoes on until you’re sitting on your sand-proof blanket. "This way you won’t bring sand into your designated area, like you would with sandals," she explains. Once you're settled in, just chill for a sec, taking in the scenery and each other. 7. Make time for foreplay. Just because you’re having beach sex doesn’t mean you have to settle for a quickie. Instead, Brito suggests covering yourself and your sexual partner with the compact towel and exploring each other’s bodies. If dirty talk is your thing, work that in, too. Whatever you’re into, "let your imagination roll and your hands wander." In fact, Brito actually recommends outercourse over intercourse on the beach. "You can definitely enjoy manual or oral sex under a blanket and have loads of pleasurable fun without calling much attention to yourself," she says. 8. Get into position. Not all beach sex positions are created equal (sorry but it’s true). To avoid getting sand in unwanted places, Brito recommend "positions where your genitals are the farthest away from the sand, like doggy style." That’s not exactly the best position for avoiding attention, though, so you might also want to try the napping sex position, she says. It’s pretty simple: "Get in a spooning position, like you are getting ready to take a nap, and then rock back and forth, until you find the rhythm that works best for both of you." If you brought a beach chair (points for preparedness), you can also try Cowgirl, either facing your partner or facing away. Missionary isn’t the best sex position for the beach, but if you really want to do it, Brito suggests putting a pillow underneath you to elevate the vagina so you don’t get any sand down there. Whatever position you choose, use the compact towel to cover yourself. 9. If someone walks by, don’t panic. This is when that compact towel really comes in handy. Once you notice someone approaching, make sure you’re covered, and act as casual as you can, considering the, uh, situation. "If you’re having oral sex, then stop, and rest your head on your partner’s belly or thighs instead," Brito suggests. "If you’re having intercourse, then stop thrusting, and cuddle instead." No one will be the wiser… 10. Stop immediately if you get sand in your genitals. You’ve taken enough precautions that this **shouldn’t** happen, but if it does, don’t worry. Just stop the second you’re uncomfortable and rinse off in the water. (I mean, that's literally what it's there for...) 11. Cool off when you’re done. Now that you’ve gotten all hot and heavy, nothing feels better than a quick dip in the ocean, says Brito. Just make sure the surf isn’t too rough before going in, and use your dry towel to clean up, she says. If it’s not safe to cool off in the ocean, you can also take a cool shower together back home. Once you're done, well, you might like the way your partner's skin glistens from the water so much that you decide to go for round two... This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io