Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Double Dilated Pore Of Winer In Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she tackles two giant DPOWs on her patients. One is hiding on her patient's earlobe and the other dilated pore of winer is on the upper back. Dr. Pimple Popper uses her scalpel to scrape and squeeze out all the solid gunk, which looks like buttons. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is working oh so hard on this Friday afternoon. She's putting in the hours so her fans can all chill out before the weekend. In her latest Instagram video, Dr. Pimple Popper helps two patients with the same problem. Both have a giant dilated pore of winer hiding in plain sight. One patient has the DPOW, or giant blackhead, lodged in the earlobe. The other patient has a massive blob of dark gunk stuffed in the upper back/shoulder area. Dr. Pimple Popper wrote in the caption: "Some Friday relief. 😌Happy Friday!! #drpimplepopper #relax" This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. The dilated pore of winer is so large, she can't use her comedone extractor tool. Instead, Dr. Pimple Popper has her scalpel in hand and starts poking at the lump of gunk. With each push, the mush slowly starts to emerge from under the skin. It keeps coming and coming. It looks like there's a never-ending supply. Finally, it's all freed and out in the open. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Her fans loved every moment of the extraction. One filled a comment with raised hands emojis: "🙌🙌🙌🙌" Other Popaholics found words to express their appreciation: "Two for the price of one, woohoo! 😂" Another fan added what everyone was thinking: "Sooooo satisfying!" This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io