Title: 15 Valentine's Day Sex Positions To Try For Hotter, Romantic Sex

Text: If I were a greeting-card designer, I would make it my personal mission to rebrand Valentine's Day as the Day of Sex. For one, you don't need to be in a relationship to celebrate good sex (now love, that's a different story...). Two, you don't need to spend any money on Valentine's Day gifts (orgasms are free!). And last but not least, you certainly don't need to worry about the fact that everyone else and their mom got roses when you're basking in that post-O glow. In all seriousness, whether you heart or hate the silly Hallmark holiday for all of its inherent romantic vibes, you should be having hot Valentine's Day sex. A good romp or two (or five) heightens intimacy (thanks to all the feel-good chemicals released during intercourse and orgasm especially), reignites your connection, and duh, puts you in a better mood to deal with all the annoying lovebirds on Instagram. Chocolate is delicious and all, but it can't do all that (maybe just that last part). This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Now, if you want to make your V-Day really special, you'll want to bust out some new, more sensual moves. Your goal isn't just to come, but to admire your partner from head to toe and let them revel in all of you (hint: that means lots of skin-on-skin and intense eye contact). Not sure where to start? Behold the sweetest, sexiest, curated list of positions for the best Valentine's Day sex of your life. If only I could put these* on a card... *While many of these directions reference male partners, these positions can be assumed by just about anyone. 1. Not-So-Secret Admirer EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER Any position where you can easily kiss while touching each other's, uh, things, is a win for Valentine's Day sex. This seated setup makes squeezing his balls—or co-massaging your breasts—a cinch. Do It: While he sits on the bed or a chair, back yourself into his lap and spoon each other while seated. Want to up the ante? Tighten the muscles of your pelvic floor so you can grip him.  2. Roses Are Red EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER Want to cradle your gift from Cupid? Get it, girl. Not only will you feel ~connected~, your rosebud will get plenty of attention here. Do It: Prop your valentine up with some pillows and his legs outstretched. Then lower yourself onto him, keeping your feet flat on the bed (or floor, or whatever). Here, you're able to control the rhythm by pressing up through the balls of your feet.   3. The Box of Chocolates Emily Schiff-Slater You never know what you’re gonna get…except a solid view of your ass. The friction this position offers may deliver a stellar, unconventional orgasm, but you’ll have to give it a try to find out. Do It: This is essentially upside-down missionary. Once your bodies are aligned, grab his butt to help control the thrusts—maybe throw in a spank or two if that’s your jam. 4. Two Halves, One Hole EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER Sorry, still giggling over the name of this one. If you want to try something new this Valentine's, consider this your move. You might feel like you're far away, but that's the appeal here: The position gives you both nice views of each other's full naked bodies, and you have control over the depth, speed, and angle of the thrusts. Do It: Your partner sits with his legs straight and you sit on top of him with bent knees on top of his thighs, and you both lean back. To make it even hotter, have him use his hand to rub your clitoris, or massage with your own. Lean back farther for extra G-spot stimulation.  Screw lingerie. Wear vibrating panties to bed this V-Day! 5. The Vag-entine Emily Schiff-Slater Ride your valentine as fast or as slow as you want on top: It's called V-Day, not P-Day, and you should honor that. This position is just like cowgirl, but with a twist—you lean back, creating a different angle that helps you target your G-spot even more and gives your partner easy access to your clitoris. Psst, while in position, you'll want to give yourself a hand with the "V stroke": Make a V with the index and ring finger of one hand and place the fingers on either side of your clitoris with his penis in between. Push your fingers down in a rocking motion. Do It: Climb on top and have your partner enter you. Then lean back and place your hands on the bed for support, creating a 45-degree angle with your partner's legs. 6. Burning Love EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER Turn up the heat on what’s sure to be a chilly winter night with this position perf for V-Day V-play. Your partner's body heat will warm you up and make you feel closer than ever. Do It: Lie side-by-side in the spooning position, and bend your knees slightly so that he can enter you from behind. 7. Sugar Lips Emily Schiff-Slater Take your spoon and raise it a fork: This missionary-turned-sideways position provides the same full-body press and romantic eye gaze, plus lots of opportunity for all the kissing. Do It: From the missionary position, without disengaging, turn together onto your sides, using your arms to support your upper bodies. Try intertwining your legs with his or fondling him down below for even more intimacy. 8. Cupid's Arrow Emily Schiff-Slater BAM—you’ve been struck by love. Now have him point his, um, arrow your way with this challenging move. Do It: Lie back in the plow position, with your ankles on either side of your head. He will squat and dip his penis in and out of you. 9. Eat Your Heart Out Emily Schiff-Slater Candy isn’t all that’s on the menu today. This super-cozy move allows plenty of face time for making out. Do It: While he’s sitting down, you sit in his lap, facing him. 10. Head Over Heels Emily Schiff-Slater Or, in this case, heels over head. Take your relationship to a deeper level with this move that helps him go all the way. Do It: Lie back with your legs resting on each of his shoulders. This narrows your vagina for a snugger fit and more stimulation. 11. The Dovetail EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER Having your partner go down on you is pretty freaking intimate, and this G-spot-blasting position makes the transition from oral to vaginal a little too easy. It's perfect to try out this Valentine's Day, because it's all about you (as it should be, obviously). Do It: Lie back with your legs resting on each of your partner's shoulders. Have your partner lick your clitoris with their tongue, then have them start rocking you in a side-to-side or up-and-down motion. That should bring the penis into direct contact with your G-spot, where it belongs.  12. Puppy Love EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER This move is all about animalistic sensuality and deep (deeeeep) penetration. Enjoy!  Do It: Get on all fours and have him kneel behind you. He enters from behind while holding your hips or boobs.  13. Hug Me EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER This slightly awkward candy heart phrase just got way hotter with this athletic standing-sex challenge. Do It: He stands while you straddle him, wrapping your legs around his body. He, in turn, supports your backside. You can transition to this move from lying down or simply take a leap of faith. 14. Ballet Dancer EMILY SCHIFF-SLATER Shower sex is the steamiest way to mix it up on Valentine's Day. Rinse and repeat. Do It: With your partner standing and positioned to enter you from the front, bring one leg up to brace against the edge of the tub or your shower wall for extra support and thrusting leverage. The change in angle adds a stimulating twist to a shower standard, and the added sensation of warm water on your back definitely doesn’t hurt. 15. The Om Women's Health If you're going ~out~ this Valentine's Day, pull over on the way home for some spontaneous car sex. This position is both romantic *and* hot. Do It: Have your partner sit cross-legged (yoga-/pretzel-style) on the car seat, then sit in their lap facing them. Wrap your legs around them and hug each other for support. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io