Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Juicy Whitehead On Neck In New Instagram Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she squeezes a big, juicy whitehead in a mysterious location. Fans are so curious about where this pimple popped up and guess the foot or neck area. Dr. Pimple Popper used her comedone extractor tool to press out a surprising amount of gunk. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, isn't afraid to get up close and personal with any of the pimples her patients bring in. Her latest Instagram video shows off her handiwork popping a juicy whitehead. Her patient has multiple whiteheads right on the surface of the skin, but the exact location remains a mystery. The video view is so zoomed in that there aren't any landmarks to help decipher where she's working. Dr. Pimple Popper added a pun in her Instagram caption: "Up close and PORE-sonal #drpimplepopper #extractions" It is spot on. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. First things first, the popping action starts as soon as you press play. Dr. Pimple Popper has her comedone extractor tool in one hand and is ready to go. She press once, and a bunch of gunk comes out. Then, she goes back for more again and again. This whitehead is seriously stuffed. Every time Dr. Pimple Popper presses, she gets another blob of gunk. It's all so satisfying to watch, but the fans can't stop guessing where the doc is working. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. One commenter got the convo started, "What body part is this?" Others quickly chimed in with their thoughts: "I feel like thats the area between the eye and temple." Several voted for a foot, but others thought it looked like a neck. "I think it's too fleshy for a foot. Maybe a neck or under the arm? There is a lot of skin that slides back into the picture when she takes the extractor tool away," one fan wrote. Paging Dr. P to give us all the deets! This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io