Title: Meghan Markle Shows Off Her Living Room While Wishing America's Got Talent's Archie Williams Luck

Text: Meghan Markle recorded a video message for America's Got Talent contestant Archie Williams from her living room. On display behind her were a Diptyque Tuberose candle and two stacks of books including, The Black Godfather and Women. Over the past couple weeks, Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have been showing little glimpses of their new Montecito, California house during virtual appearances on Zoom for causes that are important to them. But the Duchess of Sussex gave the most revealing look at how she and Harry decorated the place during her surprise appearance on America's Got Talent last week. Meghan recorded a video message for contestant Archie Williams from her living room. YouTube On display behind her were a Diptyque Tuberose candle and two stacks of books including, The Black Godfather and Women. Tuberose candle diptyque $68.00 SHOP NOW Meghan told Williams, who was previously incarcerated for 37 years for a crime he didn't commit, "I just wanted to let you know that we've been so moved by your story, and we have been cheering you on every week, and it's not just because we're partial to the name." (Meghan and Harry named their one-year-old son Archie.) "So a very special message to you that I will probably be saying all of my life, but on this night it is specifically for you: Archie, we are proud of you, and we are rooting for you, and we can't wait to see what you do. We're in your corner," she finished. This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Meghan and Harry appeared together earlier this week in their backyard for the Time 100 special. The couple implored Americans to register to vote, with Meghan saying, "Now we're just six weeks out from Election Day, and today is National Voter Registration Day. Every four years, we are told the same thing, that 'this is the most important election of our lifetime.' But this one is. When we vote, our values are put into action and our voices are heard. Your voice is a reminder that you matter. Because you do. And you deserve to be heard." This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. “It’s time to not only reflect, but act.” This #NationalVoterRegistrationDay, join #Time100 alumni Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, in taking action for the future. pic.twitter.com/JerXHxiZK3 — ABC (@ABCNetwork) September 23, 2020 Alyssa Bailey News and Strategy Editor Alyssa Bailey is the news and strategy editor at ELLE.com, where she oversees coverage of celebrities and royals (particularly Meghan Markle and Kate Middleton). This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io