Title: Alex Rodriguez Shares Video Of J.Lo Photos In His Home Post Split

Text: Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez have announced their romantic relationship is over and that they've called off their engagement. The two stars shared a joint statement with the news, but A.Rod also released a video looking back at photo memories of J.Lo. A-Rod pans the camera across a shelf with photos of them as a happy couple, with their kids, and more. After going through a rough patch, J.Rod is over for good this time. Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez have decided they're better as friends. And it's not an insider source relaying the news. This 'ship update comes directly from the stars themselves. Last night, A-Rod took a trip down memory lane on his Instagram stories, and I'm not quite sure whether to cry or cringe or both. He shared a video of a bunch of photos of J.Lo following the split announcement. He pans the camera across a shelf in his home filled with frames and J.Lo's smiling face looking back. For ten seconds all that fills the screen are sweet photos of J.Lo. There's a snap of she and A-Rod dressed up and all loved up. There's another with J.Lo and his daughters, Natasha and Ella. There are vintage black and white pics of the superstar, too. Another frame has the words Jennifer and Alex surrounded by a heart with a date ending in 2019, when they got engaged. A-Rod added a small heart and tagged J.Lo in the corner. (Yes, her social media manager got the notification.) But there's also music in the background. Coldplay's "Fix You" plays as the camera pans across the frames with lyrics like: "When you try your best, but you don't succeed When you get what you want but not what you need When you feel so tired, but you can't sleep Stuck in reverse And the tears come streaming down your face When you lose something, you can't replace When you love someone, but it goes to waste Could it be worse?" This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io