Title: Dr. Pimple Popper Pops Slippery 'Serpent' Lipoma In Youtube Video

Text: In Dr. Pimple Popper's new Instagram video, she helps a patient with a slippery, slithering lipomas. The dermatologist uses all her might to squeeze it out with her hands. Dr. Pimple Popper says it slithers out and then right back in. Dermatologist Sandra Lee, MD, a.k.a. Dr. Pimple Popper, is truly multitalented. She has many creative strategies for popping all the different pimples that her patients bring in, and is a total pro. Still, the pesky pimples can surprise her. Dr. Pimple Popper explained, "I thought this lipoma would pop right out, but boy was I wrong! It just kept slithering its way back in! 🐍💥" She added: "Every time I got a piece of this lipoma, it slithered back in! 🐍" This particular lipoma required a different type of anesthesia for safety issues. Dr. Pimple Popper explained, "If an area of the skin this size needs to be locally anesthetized it's common to use the "tumescent technique" which is the same way I numb people when I perform body liposuction. Essentially, this is when we dilute the lidocaine, in saline (with epinephrine and bicarb as usual), so we can spread it out to a wider area. Lidocaine in large volumes in our body is actually life threatening, so we always monitor how much lidocaine we are administering if we know we need to anesthetize a large area." This content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. This back lipoma was quite the struggle for Dr. Pimple Popper. She sliced the skin open and got right to squeezing. It took multiple squeeze attempts before the whole thing emerged on the surface. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Dr. Pimple Popper also dropped some helpful background on lipomas. "Lipomas are slow-growing, benign (non-cancerous) growths of fat cells. These cells are contained in a thin capsule that creates the appearance of a “bump” right under the skin. Lipomas are typically not tender, move around easily, and don’t require treatment. However, some lipomas may sit in places that cause discomfort to the patient, which is why some people may request removal. Appearance is another reason people may request removal as well. Often a small incision can be made over the lipoma and they can be "popped" out easily, which is a simple in-office surgical procedure under local anesthesia." This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io