Title: Reese Witherspoon's Skin Glowed Even Before Her Oscars Glam - Here Are Her 6 Favourite Products

Text: Naturally, Reese Witherspoon looked completely sensational at last night's Academy Awards, where she presented an Oscar. But, even before she was glammed up for the event, her skin looked glowing – as you can see in her (very Internet-friendly) 'before and after' Instagram video, here. This content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Luckily, Reese has previously shared details of how she gets her skin so good – using a skincare routine that, as well as luxury brands, includes budget buys from brands like Cetaphil and The Inkey List. In a previous social post from the Winter, the actress shared that, firstly, she's all about Elizabeth Arden products. (She’s a spokesperson for the brand.) She said that she is a big fan of Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Cream and Elizabeth Arden’s Ceramide Replenishing Oil. Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Cream Skin Protectant (50ml) Elizabeth Arden lookfantastic.com £28.00 SHOP NOW 'It makes my skin so soft and moisturized,' she said. She then uses the NuVibe RX Amethyst Massaging Beauty Roller, which she said helps 'get rid of dark circles.' NuVibe RX Amethyst Massaging Beauty Roller Nurse Jamie cultbeauty.co.uk £75.00 SHOP NOW Reese also told Refinery29 that she loves Cetaphil Daily Facial Cleanser ('I use the face wash, and I travel with it,' she said). Cetaphil Gentle Skin Cleanser - 236ml cetaphil boots.com £9.50 SHOP NOW And Reese’s makeup artist Kelsey Deenihan shared in September 2020 that she used The Inkey List to prep her client’s skin before the Emmys. 'Proper skin prep is always essential,' Deenihan said in a press release. Her pre-makeup skincare routine included The Inkey List Hyaluronic Acid to hydrate or plump her skin and The Inkey List Peptide Moisturizer for what Deenihan says is 'extreme hydration.' Hyaluronic Acid Serum THE INKEY LIST cultbeauty.co.uk £5.99 SHOP NOW So, there you have it. An Oscar-worthy glow, no tropical holiday required. Cut through the noise and get practical, expert advice, home workouts, easy nutrition and more direct to your inbox. Sign up to the WOMEN'S HEALTH NEWSLETTER Emily Shiffer Emily Shiffer is a former digital web producer for Men’s Health and Prevention, and is currently a freelancer writer specializing in health, weight loss, and fitness. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io