Title: Music by Indigenous artists compiled by Divide And Dissolve

Text: The activist doom duo share an annotated playlist of new music featuring Try The Pie, Weedrat, With War, and more Try The Pie “Parts” From Domestication (Bandcamp) Try The Pie is better than a gluten free vegan slice of pie with vegan ice cream. Nothing can compare. Bean Kaloni Tupou is a prolific Tongan musician based in the Bay Area. I’ve recently had the opportunity to spend quality time with Bean. Getting to know them is one of the sweetest experiences I’ve ever had. Their music is comprehensive, complex; truly magnificent. They have been working on a new album that is mind blowing. Liłith “Luxuria” From Lost/Abandoned (Bandcamp) When listening to Liłith, relationality to harmonies, dissonance, and doom is called into question. Liłith’s melodies intricately weave into the Earth's harmonies. We have had the pleasure of playing a few shows with Liłith and get blown away each time. Liłith is jouissance. They encapsulate the sounds that I search for. Weedrat “Bad Day” From Besides (Chapter House) Weedrat is hope and joy. Weedrat is unbelievable. Weedrat will turn your bad day into a great one. Weedrat is a band that I will continue to revisit for the rest of my life. Black Belt Eagle Scout “Soft Stud” From Mother Of My Children (Saddle Creek) Katherine’s songs of Black Belt Eagle Scout are a way to learn about love. The world can be so tragic and intense, but these songs are amazing love affirmations. When we met years ago I didn’t know I would be listening to these songs dreaming about love and it’s possibilities. Ruby Solly “Matairangi” From Pōneke (Bandcamp) Ruby Solly is a Māori musician who creates classical compositions that are painful and profound. One of these days I will get to sit down and have my heart ripped out by critically listening and engaging in these compositions. Ruby Solly’s music is in direct defiance of a violent hegemonic narrative. Piqsiq “Tuktu Strut” From Altering The Timeline (Bandcamp) Piqsiq’s music is immersive and dense. This duo is transcendental and meditative. Piqsiq challenges the narrative of linear time. When listening to this band I get intentionally lost. With War “Liberation” From War Cry (Bandcamp)  With War’s music is the music that the world has been waiting for. If you are feeling low this will uplift you. With War is anti-colonial vegan straight edge magnificence. Go grab your vegan cupcakes and mosh in the pit with us!  Archie “Power (Get It)” From Power (Get It) (Archie Music)  Archie The Shycon is truly an inspiration. Archie is a prolific Black and Indigenous (Mohican) artist. Knowing that there are Black and Indigenous musicians out there is life-affirming. Archie’s compositions are extremely important. I recall hearing Archie’s music for the first time and being transported into another dimension.  Divide And Dissolve are interviewed by Emily Pothast in The Wire 443. Subscribers can read the full article via the digital archive.