Title: The 49 Most Anticipated Albums of Spring 2021: Taylor Swift, Japanese Breakfast, J Balvin, and More

Text: Spring is in the air, the weather is getting warmer, vaccination rates are climbing, tours are being announced: there’s a lot to be hopeful for right now. And as the bumper crop of albums listed below attests, there’s a ton of great music awaiting our ears just around the corner. Here are 49 records to look forward to in the coming months. (As of April 6, all release dates have been confirmed. But as usual, everything is subject to change.) Modern Love Andy Stott: Never the Right Time April 16 UK electronic producer Andy Stott had almost completed his new album Never the Right Time in early 2020, just months after the release of 2019’s It Should Be Us. But then “personal upheaval brought everything to a sudden standstill,” he explained in a press release. Stott finally finished the album in late 2020. In March, he dropped the frosty first single “the beginning,” featuring vocals by Alison Skidmore. –Marc Hogan Preorder: Boomkat The Armed: ULTRAPOP April 16 According to the Armed’s guitarist and co-producer Dan Greene, the hardcore collective’s latest album is a “joyous, genderless, post-nihilist, anti-punk, razor-focused take on creating the most intense listener experience possible.” The follow-up to 2018’s Only Love features assistance from Mark Lanegan, Queens of the Stone Age’s Troy Van Leeuwen, producer Ben Chisholm, and executive producer Kurt Ballou. The famously mysterious group revealed its member lineup for this album in the live video for lead single “All Futures.” –Sam Sodomsky All products featured on Pitchfork are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. New Amsterdam Arooj Aftab: Vulture Prince April 23 Pakistan-born, Brooklyn-based multi-hyphenate Arooj Aftab will release Vulture Prince after sharing the singles “Last Night” and “Mohabbat,” both of which blur the lines between genres and traditions. “It’s about people, friendships, relationships,” Aftab has said of the full-length effort. Vulture Prince follows her 2015 debut album Bird Under Water. –Marc Hogan Preorder: Bandcamp Bachelor: Doomin’ Sun May 28 In February, Jay Som’s Melina Duterte and Palehound’s Ellen Kempner revealed they were joining forces under the name Bachelor. After releasing the single “Anything at All,” the indie-rock singer-songwriters later confirmed that the project would carry over to a full-length album, Doomin’ Sun, with contributions from members of Big Thief and Chastity Belt. They also shared the new song “Stay in the Car.” In 2019, Jay Som released Anak Ko, and Palehound released Black Friday. –Marc Hogan beabadoobee: Our Extended Play EP Spring Months after her debut album as beabadoobee with last year’s Fake It Flowers, singer-songwriter Bea Kristi returns this spring with a new EP titled, simply, Our Extended Play. Matty Healy and George Daniel of the 1975 are credited as producers and co-writers, and the first single “Last Day on Earth” was released in March with a video. Kristi has said she “wanted to experiment on the sounds and sonics even more.” beabadoobee’s first proper tour behind Fake It Flowers is set for this September in the UK. –Marc Hogan black midi: Cavalcade May 28 In the lyrics of Cavalcade, the sophomore album from adventurous London rock band black midi, you’ll encounter a cult leader fallen on hard times, a corpse in a diamond mine, iconic singer Marliene Dietrich, and so much more. “When you’re listening to the album you can almost imagine all the characters form a sort of cavalcade,” bassist Cameron Picton said in a press release. “Each tells their story one by one and as each track ends they overtake you, replaced by the next in line.” Lead single “John L” indicates the rest of the album will be just as wide-ranging and unpredictable. –Sam Sodomsky Bomba Estéreo: Deja Spring Four years after Bomba Estéreo’s last studio album Ayo, the Colombian band returns with Deja, a project divided into parts based on the four classical elements: Agua, Aire, Tierra, and Fuego. Lido Pimienta and OKAN guest on lead single “Agua.” The group has also shared “Soledad” and the title track. “The album is about the connection and disconnection of human beings—from the planet, from one’s own self,” Bomba singer Liliana “Li” Saumet has said. –Marc Hogan BROCKHAMPTON: ROADRUNNER: NEW LIGHT, NEW MACHINE April 9 Almost four years since their debut, BROCKHAMPTON will release their sixth album Roadrunner: New Light, New Machine, with an accompanying livestreamed broadcast from Rick Rubin’s Shangri-La Studios in Malibu. To build anticipation for the record, the group teased its arrival with trailers that feature Rubin and RZA. They recently dropped the album’s lead single “Buzzcut,” featuring Danny Brown, as well as “Count on Me,” featuring Shawn Mendes, A$AP Rocky, and Ryan Beatty. –Alphonse Pierre Cardi B TBD In early February, Cardi B shared her new single and video, “Up.” In an interview timed to the release, she said she wanted to put out an album in 2021 and had “like 50 songs” recorded. Since then, Cardi has performed her 2020 hit with Megan Thee Stallion, “WAP,” at the Grammys, although the song isn’t expected to be submitted for awards consideration until next year—hopefully timed to the release of the follow-up to her 2018 debut Invasion of Privacy. –Marc Hogan CHAI: WINK May 21 CHAI’s fuses cheeky rock music with dance and R&B elements on WINK, the Japanese group’s third album and first for Sub Pop. WINK signals the first time CHAI has teamed up with guest artists (Ric Wilson, Mndsgn, and YMCK), and the quartet has released several vibrant lead singles. Look to the delightful indie-pop song “Donuts Mind If I Do” for a taste of WINK’s culinary theme and undeniably playful energy. –Eric Torres Damon Locks / Black Monument Ensemble: NOW April 9 Damon Locks and the Black Monument Ensemble’s first album, 2019’s Where Future Unfolds, documented the live debut of the Chicago artist/activist and 15-member collective in a city park. Recording for the follow-up, simply titled NOW, seems to have been almost as spontaneous, comprising “only a few takes” in a garden behind Chicago’s Experimental Sound Studio. The ensemble includes such illustrious International Anthem labelmates as Angel Bat Dawid and Ben LaMar Gay, but the most prominent accompanists on lead single “Now (Forever Momentary Space)” is a swarm of cicadas. –Marc Hogan Darkside: Spiral TBD Eight years after their one and only album, 2013’s Psychic, Nicolás Jaar and Dave Harrington have returned. Last December, Darkside announced a new full-length, Spiral, timed for a spring 2021 release. They also shared a new song, the lush and heady “Liberty Bell.” They recently unearthed PSYCHIC LIVE JULY 17 2014—a live set from Belgium’s Dour Festival. –Marc Hogan Dawn Richard: Second Line: An Electro Revival April 30 For her debut on famed indie label Merge, electronic-R&B artist Dawn Richard adopted the persona of King Creole to pay homage to the parades in her hometown of New Orleans. The follow-up to 2019’s new breed includes previously released singles “Bussifame,” “Pilot (a lude),” and “Jacuzzi.” Richard said she made Second Line to center Black women in electronic music and show beyond doubt that they belong—and always have. She told Pitchfork earlier this year, “I want to fucking break that taboo all the way.” –Eric Torres Dinosaur Jr.: Sweep It Into Space April 23 Five years after 2016’s Give a Glimpse of What Yer Not, rock legends Dinosaur Jr. will return with a new record, Sweep It Into Space, co-produced by Kurt Vile. The band began recording in late 2019 at Biquiteen in Amherst, Massachusetts but was interrupted by the pandemic. Luckily, “the recording session was pretty well finished by the time things really hit the fan,” according to J Mascis. Meanwhile, the trio has announced 2021 tour dates and a rescheduled Camp Fuzz retreat in Big Indian, New York. –Quinn Moreland Drake: Certified Lover Boy TBD Last August, after the longest-ever break between albums, Drake announced Certified Lover Boy—the follow-up to 2018’s Scorpion—and shared his Lil Durk collaboration “Laugh Now Cry Later.” The news followed last spring’s Dark Lane Demo Tapes project. Multiple teased release dates for the Six God’s sixth album have come and gone, but Drake has lost none of his bravado along the way. On this year’s surprise, guest-filled Scary Hours 2 EP, he boasts, “Come with a classic, they come around years later and say it’s a sleeper.” –Marc Hogan Ethel Cain: Inbred EP April 23 Indiana-based singer-songwriter Ethel Cain, born Hayden Silas Anhedonia, has described her Cain persona as “the unhappy wife of a corrupt preacher.” She’s brought that image to vivid life through two caustic singles from the forthcoming EP so far: the sawtoothed “Michelle Pfeiffer,” featuring emo-trap artist lil aaron, and “Crush,” both of which display Cain’s sharp strain of indie rock. –Eric Torres FORESEEN Entertainment / Epistrophik Peach Sound Georgia Anne Muldrow: VWETO III May 21 Georgia Ann Muldrow revealed news of her instrumental VWETO III in March. It’s the third entry in a series, after 2011’s VWETO and 2019’s VWETO II. Muldrow also shared the track “Mufaro’s Garden.” Last year, Muldrow released an album by her solo jazz project Jyoti, Mama, You Can Bet!. The upcoming record, she’s said, “is intended for movement.” –Marc Hogan