Title: 36 of America’s Best Independent Music Venues on Surviving and What’s Next

Text: How to support Neurolux: Venmo the staff @Neurolux. Chilkoot Charlie’s Anchorage, Alaska Capacity: 999 Established: 1970 Best Known For: A space big enough to hold something for everybody By Zachariah Hughes Chilkoot Charlie’s (known by Alaskans as simply “Koot’s”) is more than your typical music venue—it’s a rambling entertainment compound that takes up almost a full city block. There are multiple stages and bars, plus an arcade, much of which are decorated in an impressive collection of Russian memorabilia, including a lifesize model of the Sputnik satellite. One of the bars is an exact replica of a notorious Alaska saloon that burned down, meticulously recreated down to the crooked bar top and wall plastered with bras and underwear. But everything inside centers around music. Even in more normal times, Anchorage isn’t exactly a hotbed of live music. So Koot’s is one of the few places to see famous artists, or local metal acts, or cover bands playing 80s rock ballads. For decades, Koot’s was open every single day, through holidays, storms and earthquakes. Mandatory closures during the pandemic have forced the venue to shutter for the first time since its founding. Regular customers have provided a small trickle of business since the city allowed bars and restaurants to re-open with capacity limits. But live music and dancing are still off the table, and likely to remain so for months. Who are the most famous bands or artists that have come through this space? Sarah Pederson (co-owner): 36 Crazyfists. August Burns Red. Whitesnake and Ted Nugent back in the day. The Scorpions. Pantera hung out at Koot’s when they played [Alaskan arena] the Sullivan Arena, so there’s been a lot of that as well. Portugal. The Man actually played a really cool show after they got big. Sublime played outside [in the parking lot], and that was a pretty big deal at the time. So did Papa Roach, I believe. What do people in the city say is special about this venue? I think we’re the only venue in town with multiple stages and dance floors. It’s so big, and there are so many different rooms, that if you don’t like what’s happening in one room, you can walk into the next one and find something completely different. Does Koot’s have a signature dish or cocktail? A shot called The T-bone. It started in Koot’s. It was invented by the drummer of 36 Crazyfists, and his name is Thomas, hence the name. It’s Southern Comfort, Amaretto, 7-Up, sweet-and-sour, and a splash of lime juice. If it’s made right it tastes just like the Smarties candy. How to support Chilkoot Charlie’s: Stop by and have a socially distanced drink. 924 Gilman Berkeley, California Capacity: 225 Established: 1986 Best Known For: Being the launchpad for the ’90s punk revival By Vivian Host There’s no better embodiment of DIY punk than 924 Gilman. For 35 years, this former auto-detailing warehouse in an unassuming corner of West Berkeley has been volunteer-run, non-profit, all-ages safe space for punks and weirdos, upholding a “no racism, no sexism, no homophobia, no alcohol, no drugs” policy while hosting some of the wildest shows and moshpits on the planet. Gilman is famous for being the place where Operation Ivy, Rancid, The Offspring, A.F.I. and Green Day got their start; in tandem with local labels like Lookout! Records and Alternative Tentacles and zines such as Cometbus and Maximumrocknroll—whose creator, Tim Yohannon (RIP), co-founded Gilman—this squat brick building has helped establish the East Bay as a mecca for punk, metal, industrial and hardcore. Punk may have sold out but Gilman never did: major label bands are still banned, all decisions are voted on by volunteers, and generations of local bands have been able to hone their craft inside this dark, sweaty box, whether ’90s Bay staples Blatz, Crimpshrine and Link 80 or current house favorites like Sarchasm, Grumpster and Get Married. Sarchasm guitarist Mateo Campos has been volunteering at Gilman since he was 12 years old—14 years later, he is one of the venue’s head bookers and social media managers. What’s the most historic concert that’s happened at Gilman? Mateo Campos: Operation Ivy's last show is up there, because that was also Green Day's first show as Green Day (and not Sweet Children). The show that Fugazi played at Gilman with The Beatnigs, Yeastie Girlz, and Crimpshrine is one that people still hail as the coolest, weirdest show they saw. What was your personal favorite concert at the venue? Seeing Green Day at Gilman in 2015. It was a one-off benefit show that they played after the AK Press fire. We voted it in; it was a really special technicality because we don't allow major label bands. It was so cool seeing Green Day in such a small space. Oh my god! I totally forgot that we hosted Jawbreaker in January 2020. My bassist booked the show and my band Sarchasm got to open for them at their first show at Gilman in like 25 years! Is there something on display at Gilman that’s been there forever and everyone knows about? There’s a painting of a giant pair of bolt cutters over the entrance to the main room that's been there forever, and super satirical McDonald's art in one of the corners that’s a social commentary on starvation. The “No Stagediving” sign. Classic. I think the smells are the most interesting part of the venue 'cause it sure smells like something. It smells like punks, it smells like teenagers, it smells like 20-somethings. It smells like concrete, it smells like Whole Foods, it smells like pizza, it smells like electricity. It smells like sweat. It smells like paint. It smells like whatever monstrosity a volunteer just put in the microwave. What have you been doing to keep the venue alive since the pandemic? Before lockdown, we were gearing up to have a pretty successful summer/fall 2020. We had a bunch of cool bands coming down the pike and were really getting our act together in terms of staffing, volunteer outreach and upgrades. Financially, we were in an okay position when lockdown first happened. We have a separate financial board that deals with fundraising for Gilman as a nonprofit. They immediately started applying for grants and pushing our merch store. We threw a fundraiser with CLIF Bar and Epitaph Records back in May… and we used that experience to start throwing our own livestream shows. We try to do one every four to six weeks – we stream those on Twitch, YouTube and Facebook and ask for donations. I think our next one is in early March.