Title: The 7 Best DJ Mixes of April 2021

Text: Every month, Philip Sherburne listens to a whole lot of mixes so you only have to listen to the best ones. It’s hardly news that time moves strangely these days. Whether coincidentally or otherwise, some of the most captivating sets right now play with that sense of disorientation. UK club experimentalist Mr. Mitch zigzags between full on and chilled out; Brooklyn’s L’Rain facilitates a kind of guided meditation; and D.C.’s dreamcastmoe invites listeners into his car for a set that’s all about restless, nonstop motion. With time (seemingly) standing still, it’s also easy to feel nostalgic—an impulse indulged by Max D and DJ Storm. London’s Shannen SP casts a backward glance too, seeking reassurance in the ways people persevered through earlier crises. Shannen SP – Fact Mix 805 In this irresistibly vibe-soaked set, London DJ Shannen SP—an NTS Radio resident and co-curator of Hyperdub’s monthly Ø club nights—takes a trip back to the South African house, hip-hop, and kwaito of the late 1990s and early 2000s. With the lilting sound of South African amapiano on the rise, it’s a timely occasion to revisit this material; her selections have the same kinds of slow-motion grooves, sing-song melodies, and bright synths that have evolved into signature elements of amapiano. But there’s a deeper cultural significance behind her choices, she says: With Nelson Mandela’s 1994 electoral victory having put an official end to the apartheid era, the music of the ensuing years was infused with newfound optimism. The contemporary global crisis is very different—and in much of the world, despite promising vaccination rates in the global North, it is only getting worse. But by highlighting the bright, joyful sounds that emerged out of the collective trauma of apartheid, Shannen SP offers both a history lesson and, perhaps, a glimmer of hope. Mr. Mitch – SYSTEM Mix 044 If you were going to highlight a single jaw-dropping moment from Mr. Mitch’s mix for Boiler Room’s SYSTEM series—and there are many—it’d probably be the stretch where Gemini’s 1995 techno anthem “A Moment of Insanity” suddenly opens a trap door into B2K’s “Gots Ta Be,” thrashing snares seamlessly beatmatched into patient R&B. Then, just moments later, B2K’s silky vocal harmonies morph into the UK funky-inspired groove of Breaka & Frazer Ray’s “The Loudest Woiioii Ever,” mixed perfectly in key. Mr. Mitch came up as a grime-adjacent producer, but in recent years his records have opened up to embrace a wealth of styles. This spring’s Lazy encompasses squelchy acid, muted soul, ambient R&B, and crisply stepping UK funky. His SYSTEM mix is similarly diverse, yet it never feels over thought, or eclectic just for the sake of being eclectic. There’s a brilliant passage early on, as Leonce’s chilly “Flute Strike” gives way to Moiré’s “Know Me,” a ghostly sort of hip-house tune that in turn sets up the jubilant disco house of TEYMORI’s “Roy Layers.” They’re three completely different styles, three completely different moods—yet they all add up to a single train of thought. Kemistry and Storm feat. MC Flux – Metalheadz @ Leisure Lounge 19/4/1997 April 25, 1999 marked the end of an era in drum’n’bass. DJs Kemistry, Storm, and Goldie—co-founders of Metalheadz, one of the genre’s most iconic labels—were driving home from a gig when a metal road stud came crashing through the windshield. Kemistry—35-year-old Valerie Olukemi A. Olusanya, or just “Kemi” to her friends—died on the spot. To mark the anniversary of her passing, Storm recently posted a two-part club set with Kemistry. Recorded in 1997, at the Metalheadz club night at London’s Leisure Lounge, the set is a snapshot of a golden era of the genre. The grooves are grim and tech-y, the textures suggestive of soot and chrome; skeletal rhythms lurch forward with relentless focus, with the odd vocal sample or horn stab piercing the murk like a searchlight. The mixing plays out like a tug of war between brute force and nimble precision, a balance most thrillingly demonstrated in the second half, as the flashing ride cymbals of Boymerang’s “Mind Control” morph into the splintered snares of Photek’s “Smoke Rings.” It’s an exhilarating reminder of drum’n’bass’s power—and a touching memorial to one of the scene’s greats. Dreamcastmoe – RA.776 Washington, D.C.’s dreamcastmoe envisions his Resident Advisor podcast as a virtual carpool, “picking up friends along the way,” he says. “It’s all things that I would roll up, smoke and drive to. The tempo just sort of rises as you go.” But there’s another way that his mix of eerie, psychedelic soul and melancholy R&B resembles a trip across town: The musician’s own voice is woven throughout the mix, singing and freestyling. That kind of intimacy “speaks to me being shy and not wanting to perform in front of people,” he adds, “so it’s easier for me to do it in a car with my friends.” His selections lean toward the stickiest sort of electronic funk, with many productions coming from Future Times affiliates like Max D, Dawit Eklund, and Will DiMaggio. But dreamcastmoe’s own songs are the glue that holds it all together; flitting between husky baritone and cracking falsetto, his music overflows with the kind of feeling that can’t be contained. “Tell me why the best die young/Twenty-four laps around the sun,” he pleads on “(301) 341-7207,” an early highlight of the session. For all the wonky drum machines and Bernie Mac interludes, it’s this degree of feeling—vulnerability, even—that makes his set so special. Max D – Indie Rock Forget what the title says; this is not an indie-rock mix. True, some 54 minutes into his set for Kansas City’s C minus crew, Future Times’ Max D drops a song by SST’s Meat Puppets. But the track in question, 1984’s “Aurora Borealis,” is a far cry from the Arizona band’s most ragged country punk, and in the context of the set—surrounded by the D.C. selector’s habitual beat music, ambient, and even some nu-disco—its crisp, clean-lined groove scans almost as a kind of luminous, modal funk. Max D’s set is full of such twists and turns: A Durutti Column-esque guitar miniature from Dave Pajo’s Papa M project slips into the dreamy chillout of the Irresistible Force’s “12 O’Clock”; the jazzy deep house of Global Communiation’s “Funk in the Fridge” feints sideways into dubby post-punk overlaid with sax skronk and whispered poetry. But the vibe throughout is breezy, the fake-outs delivered with a smile. He ends with a pair of classics from Luscious Jackson and Erykah Badu, conjuring fond memories of house parties among friends. Xyla – XL8R Podcast 690 The exploratory feel of Xyla’s Ways, released late last year on Leaving Records, reflects the Houston native’s initiation into electronic music. Raised on rap, R&B, and classical music, she only discovered dance music upon moving to the Bay Area to study at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. Delving deeper into unfamiliar club sounds, she eventually lit out for Berlin, where she developed the unusual fusion of ambient, footwork, and IDM that would distinguish her debut album. Her set for XLR8R—her first recorded mix, in fact—is similarly uninterested in coloring within the lines. Beginning with deep ambient and downbeat moods, she gradually raises the tempo, pushing through lo-fi house, breaks, footwork, and drum’n’bass, only to collapse back into a reassuring cushion of funk, hip-hop, and R&B for its starry-eyed denouement. Also notable is where she gets her music: Fifteen of the set’s 23 tracks are self-released and unreleased material from friends and peers. Sequenced with flair, Xyla’s mix shows ample evidence of that rarest of qualities in dance music: a refreshingly original perspective. L’Rain – Bleep Mix #173 Voices flit like ghosts through L’Rain’s Bleep Mix. It doesn’t take long before the Brooklyn musician’s creation feels less like a DJ set and more like a seance. Her musical selections reinforce the overall air of enchantment: they lean toward hushed tones and dusky atmospheres, favoring acoustic over electronic timbres. It’s an intimate sound, suggesting small rooms and close breath. On paper, the mix is all over the place, folding in ambient, jazz, and R&B. But nothing is quite what it seems. A fingerpicked folk song turns out to be a cover of Gloria Gaynor’s “I Will Survive”; Mystikal’s “I’m Throwed Off,” a bonus cut from 2000’s Let’s Get Ready, sounds less like a rap hit than a mutant strain of minimalist avant-funk, jagged and disorienting. It’s all held together by a deeply interior mood, and by the time she reaches Wizard Apprentice’s “I Am Invisible”—with the a cappella admission, “I am invisible/I am free from the pressure of being special/I welcome the potential of being mediocre”—her set achieves a hard-won catharsis.