Title: T-Mobile and Verizon Are Coming to Steal Your Cable

Text: (Nobody is going to have quite this much internet: I stuck two Verizon connections, two T-Mobile connections, and a Starlink dish onto this one house.) This week AT&T, T-Mobile, and Verizon laid out their plans for the next year on multi-hour webcasts. AT&T's announcement came too late to include here (check PCMag.com later today for more details). T-Mobile and Verizon, I'm very happy to say, provided more details on how they hope to break the backs of the most hated American tech companies, the cable internet monopolies. (Awfulness isn't inherent to cable, it's inherent to monopolies.) T-Mobile's announcement was more of a teaser: We're going to hear more later this month, probably during the very busy week of March 22, which will also include the OnePlus 9 announcement and possibly an Apple event. But T-Mobile execs have said they already have 100,000 subscribers in their 4G home internet "pilot" and want to ramp up to 500,000 this year, mostly in underserved small-town and exurban areas. T-Mobile sees a lot of opportunity in underserved areas. Verizon announced 10 new cities that will get its 5G Home internet system this month, and provided the first hard numbers of how few people its millimeter-wave home-access network covers: 1-2 million homes, or 3-6 million people. That's not too many, so Verizon will need to wait for the end of this year to expand that to 15 million homes with its new C-band spectrum. Verizon's CTO said the carrier is already starting to build that out; when the switch is flipped early next year, 100 million people will be covered with C-band at once. Verizon plans to cover 15 million households by the end of this year, but that'll require C-band. To pull this off, Verizon is going to need massive capacity. On Stetson Doggett's BestPhonePlans videocast, he told me that he's worried Verizon is having some capacity issues right now. In some big cities, it looks like Verizon's new 4G CBRS spectrum will really help with that; I tested it and managed 815Mbps downloads on 4G, which means plenty of headroom. If Verizon can keep mobile users satisified with 4G performance, that leaves more future 5G available for homes. The company said to expect speeds of up to 1Gbps on the new C-band 5G, which it will brand (and price) as "ultra-wideband" like its millimeter-wave. T-Mobile buried one of its most delightful proposals, a straight attack on cable's bottom line: no exploding promotions. The entire home internet industry in the US is based on charging you a lower introductory rate for a year, and then raising your rates and hoping you don't notice. It's the "frog in slowly boiling water" theory of pricing, which is the WORST. Verizon does it too, with Fios. If T-Mobile offers a simple, flat rate that stays the same, that alone will create a revolution. Your average cable internet customer as their rate goes up after the first year. Like what you're reading? You'll love it delivered to your inbox weekly. Sign up for the Race to 5G newsletter. There are two kinds of connectivity-underserved users I see a lot in the comments on my stories. There are folks who are miles from civilization, where it's just you and your 30-50 feral hogs. They'll still best be served by Starlink, OneWeb, and their other next-generation satellite kin. But there are a lot of people who say, "I'm 300 feet from cable, but they won't connect me." or "I'm 1,000 feet from cable but they won't connect me," or even "I placed a Wall Street Journal ad because AT&T will only give me DSL." These potential subscribers represent low-hanging fruit for T-Mobile and Verizon. Will you sign up? Tell me in the comments. I really want to test both of these systems. The Samsung Galaxy A32 looks to be the first really inexpensive C-band phone. Here's what else I've been writing and thinking about this week: Earlier this week former OnePlus founder Carl Pei unveiled the first product from his new 'Nothing' company, a pair of transparent earbuds. The Samsung Galaxy A32 will almost certainly be the first low-cost C-band phone at Verizon, coming in around $300. Verizon says all upcoming smartphones will support its new C-band 5G, which is currently only on the iPhone 12 series, Galaxy S21 series, Pixel 5 and LG Wing. The global chip shortage is hitting the smartphone industry, with Reuters reporting that a shortage of Qualcomm chips may affect Samsung's ability to produce phones. We've already heard that T-Mobile's 5G home internet rollout was delayed by a shortage of Nokia modems. T-Mobile purports to be the 'Un-carrier,' but automatically opting you in to giving your personal details to advertisers is very carrier-like. Read More Race to 5G: