Title: The Most Watched Movies on Netflix This Week

Text: The Trial of the Chicago 7 (Credit: Nico Tavernise / Netflix ) It used to be finding a movie to watch at the rental store was a chore. Now there are services like Reelgood.com that can tell you in an instant where to find the film (and TV shows) you might have an interest in streaming. With 4 million-plus users searching each week for new films, Reelgood extrapolates those queries into a list of the top movies of the week on Netflix. Not just the high-octane originals, but also classic films that are getting new attention, as well as obscure films—especially from overseas—that might be worth your time. Plus we throw in its list of the top films across all the major streaming services at the end. Take a look and see if your favorite flick is on the list; maybe you’ll find a new favorite to view tonight. Advertisement Rush Ron Howard can direct almost any movie he wants. Rush is his take on race car driving, depicting the 1970s' rivalry between Formula One racers played by Chris “Thor” Hemsworth and Daniel “Zemo” Brühl. Bad Trip Eric Andre, Tiffany Haddish, and Lil Rel Howery star in Bad Trip, a film full of real-life pranks pulled on people as they filmed, a sort of Borat Meets Jackass-style mashup, perhaps without the same level of class. Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga Will Ferrell is back in the mode that suits him best, a competition comedy where he’s the obvious idiot and yet the underdog you want to root for. The Trial of the Chicago 7 Aaron Sorkin’s Netflix original takes on one of the trials of the century past, when the organizers of the (eventually violent) protest at the 1968 Democratic National Convention were charged with conspiracy to incite a riot. The cast is stellar, including Sacha Baron Cohen as Abbie Hoffman. Sorkin wrote the script in 2007 for Steven Spielberg, but eventually directed it himself. Sorkin and Cohen are Oscar nominees; the film is up for Best Picture. The Master The real master, Paul Thomas Anderson, directed this 2012 film with the late, great Philip Seymour Hoffman playing a faux-version of L. Ron Hubbard, paired with Amy Adams as his wife and Joaquin Phoenix as the drunken veteran who finds solace in Hoffman’s fake religion. Mank Director David Fincher took his father’s screenplay about the writer and writing of Citizen Kane (which you can watch on HBO Max) and made it a black-and-white homage with a killer cast. It's been nominated for 10 Academy Awards, including Best Picture. A Shaun the Sheep Movie: Farmageddon Aardman’s Shaun the Sheep show has some of the best claymation adventure since, well, whatever the last thing was Aardman made. This 2020 feature film ups the ante for all the denizens of Mossy Bottom farm. It's up for a Animated Feature Film Oscar. Thunder Force The latest (but not greatest) superhero comedy features Melissa McCarthy and Octavia Spencer as ladies who gain some abilities (super-strength and invisibility, respectively) and—what else?—go fight crime. Why Did You Kill Me? This Netflix Original doc is about a woman who tracked down her daughter’s killers using MySpace, back when that was still a thing. But it’s not that simple, as it involves gangs, a family with a lot of criminal activity in the family's past, and a detective haunted by other crimes.