Title: The 20 Best Video Game Soundtracks Ever

Text: Video game soundtracks have come a long way, from the bleeps and bloops of yesteryear, to the orchestral medleys and vaporwave beats of today. When we talk about how effective a game is at what it's trying to do, music often plays a key role. The epic chorus chants in Skyrim pump you up to fight a dragon, the lonely piano medley in Breath of the Wild helps sell the quiet isolation of Hyrule, and the folksy instrumentals of The Witcher 3 make you feel at home on the Continent. It's also worth considering how the soundtrack holds up on its own, removed from the action onscreen. There's certainly a difference between a toe-tapping symphony and a forgettable cacophony. If we can cut away the nostalgic favoritism for a moment and focus on the musical achievement, here are our picks for the best video game soundtracks. Start streaming and enjoy. Advertisement Bastion (2011) Bastion was a strong debut from Supergiant Games, but it's the impressive soundtrack that people look back on most fondly. Composer Darren Korb developed a unique acoustic hip hop sound by using sampled beats along with acoustic guitar. The game's soundtrack was given a separate release, including additional songs not included in the game, and can be streamed on Amazon Music, Bandcamp, and Spotify. $9.99 at Steam See It Chrono Trigger (1995) Chrono Trigger is one of those once-in-a-lifetime creative endeavors you couldn't repeat even if you tried. While most will remember the game's design team, composers Yasunori Mitsuda and Nobuo Uematsu also did incredible work. The game includes 60 tracks, each lasting around two minutes before repeating, which was unheard of in the 16-bit era. Since its initial release in 1995, the soundtrack has been re-released on disc, redone for several remakes, performed live, and can be streamed on Amazon Music and Spotify. It's a true musical work of art. Mitsuda even returned in 1999 for Chrono Cross, which proved to be an even more diverse sampling of songs, though the game itself couldn't measure up. $14.99 at Steam See It Doom (1993) Robert Prince's soundtrack for the original Doom reshaped the way composers approached video game music. Taking inspiration from punk and heavy metal classics by Slayer, King Diamond, Metallica, and others, Prince’s tracks were pummeling and merciless, wringing every single bit of aggression from the primitive sound cards of the day. The more atmospheric tracks provide a welcome respite from the brutality. You can stream the full soundtrack on Bandcamp. $9.99 at Steam See It Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest (1995) 4.0 It's almost impossible to pick a favorite soundtrack when all the Donkey Kong Country games are backed by some killer tunes. However, it's the franchise's sophomore release that makes the list here thanks to composer David Wise's truly inspired work. Building off the first game's rock-infused jungle mixes, oceanic rhythms, and industrial factory beats, Diddy's Kong Quest takes on a catchy pirate theme with flute and sax medleys throughout. Though Nintendo has made it nearly impossible to listen online all these years later, you can still play the game if you subscribe to Nintendo Switch Online. If you're craving some newer beats from Wise, Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze is a solid choice on Switch. $44.99 at Target See It EarthBound (1994) EarthBound—known as Mother 2 in Japan—is remembered fondly by fans of the industry's 16-bit era. Perhaps most notably, the game's soundtrack pushed what was even possible on the Super Nintendo to the very edge. The music incorporated a diverse range of sounds, borrowing from pop, rock, jazz, salsa, reggae, and folk. More than 20 years later, it still holds up. Tragically, there is no official way to play the game on Switch, but you can still get it for the 3DS. Final Fantasy VI (1994) When you’re creating a grand story with an epic scope, you need a soundtrack to match. It's virtually impossible to think of Final Fantasy VI, the greatest RPG of the 16-bit era and one of the best of all time, without its Nobuo Uematsu score. The sound chip of the Super NES is pushed to the limit by the sheer variety of tracks the game needs, from the driving, dramatic boss battle tune "The Decisive Battle" to the plaintive opera scene. The full soundtrack is available to stream on Apple Music and Spotify. $15.99 at Steam See It Final Fantasy XV (2016) 3.5 While Final Fantasy music has always been solid, and while Final Fantasy XV is far from the best game in the series, the music is on a different level. The soundtrack mixes orchestral, bossa nova, and blues sounds to create a truly epic five-hour celebration of the bonds between family and friends. The soundtrack can be streamed on Apple Music, Spotify, and Tidal. $16.99 at Amazon See It Grim Fandango (1998) Before he founded Double Fine Productions, Tim Schafer made his bones—no pun intended—with this 1998 graphic adventure published by LucasArts. Starring a skeletal travel agent named Manny Calavera, the game’s offbeat sense of humor and unique locations have made it a classic. A major contributor to Grim Fandango’s place in the canon is the swinging jazz score by Peter McConnell. The tracks incorporate traditional noir-style arrangements with Mexican flourishes and even klezmer. You can buy the soundtrack separately, or stream it on Amazon Music, Apple Music, Spotify, Tidal, and YouTube Music. $9.99 at Steam See It Hotline Miami (2012) 2012’s unlikely indie hit Hotline Miami dropped players into a grimy world of murder and mayhem, and the music was a perfect accompaniment. Tracks were contributed by nine different artists, all working in a vein of techno heavily inspired by the 80s but enhanced with modern twists. Developers Devolver Digital realized it had a hit on its hands and released the whole set for free before the game came out. A vinyl pressing was released in 2014, as well. Our pick hit is probably "Miami" by Jasper Byrne. Buy the full soundtrack on Steam or GOG, or stream it on SoundCloud, Spotify, and YouTube Music. $9.99 at Steam See It Journey (2012) Thatgamecompany’s atmospheric Journey is the first video game to ever have its soundtrack nominated for a Grammy Award. It also demonstrates the incredible potential for music in an interactive medium, changing its tone and intensity in response to the player’s action. Composed by Austin Wintory, the music uses the cello as the primary instrument, mixing in other sounds as the game progresses. It took Wintory three years to develop all of Journey's music, and it shows. Fans of his work should also check out the soundtracks for Assassin's Creed Syndicate and Abzu. You can stream the music from Journey on Apple Music, Spotify, and YouTube Music. Katamari Damacy (2004) A good deal of the success of this quirky 2004 cult classic can be attributed to its totally unique soundtrack, which was created under the direction of Yuu Miyake. The game featured a number of catchy songs that stuck in your head as you played, with a mix of jazz, samba, and more traditional electronic sounds. The heavy use of vocals in the soundtrack was also very unusual at the time and added to the pop cultural appeal. Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (2017) 4.5 Editors' Choice It's hard to pick the best soundtrack out of a series filled to the brim with beautiful and catchy music. However, the music from Breath of the Wild offers such diverse sounds that it's hard to ignore. While most of the game features ambient piano music, the soundtrack is ultimately packed with moody wind instruments, uplifting horns, melancholy piano, and even some accordion for good measure. It's a true journey of sound. $39.99 at Amazon See It Shadow Of The Colossus (2005) Fumito Ueda’s remarkable PlayStation 2 game is haunting and evocative, putting the player in the role of a nameless man tasked with destroying a dozen massive, lurching beasts. The soundtrack perfectly complements the barren landscape you find yourself in, devoid of any other humans. Composed by Kow Otani, it alternates between soothing acoustic guitar for the traveling sequences and bombastic, at times dissonant orchestration, for the clashes with the Colossi. $19.99 at Playstation.com See It Streets of Rage 2 (1992) The Sega Genesis’s Z80 sound chip was underpowered compared to the rival Super Nintendo, but a true artist can make something wonderful with even the worst instrument. Composer Yuzo Koshiro created his own audio programming language for Streets of Rage 2, and the end result was a seriously banging set of tunes that drew inspiration from Detroit techno and breakbeat. This was in 1992, way before the rest of the games industry caught on to techno. You can stream the soundtrack on Apple Music, Spotify, and YouTube Music. $0.99 at Steam See It