Title: Break Into the Cybersecurity Job Market With This $30 Training Bundle

Text: When we think of hackers, we instinctively picture cyber-scams conducted in shadowy basements. The truth is, most hackers aren't necessarily the scourge of the internet they once were—and it's not because the requisite skill set has gotten any less impressive. Today, data is currency, and big companies rely on "white hat" hackers and other cybersecurity experts to protect their big data. It's a surprisingly profitable way to make a living, and best of all, it's completely legal. So how do you find a way into this booming job market? You can start right there in your home with The 2021 All-in-One Ethical Hacking & Penetration Testing Bundle. This collection of nine online courses takes prospective "white hat" hackers through every aspect of cybersecurity, from simple phishing techniques to threats against entire cloud networks. It's all meant to give you the tools you need to defend against these attacks, making you invaluable to any company that uses the internet on a daily basis. Even if you're starting from scratch, you'll find a firm foundation in the first few courses. The curriculum is designed by IT experts at the Oak Academy, who teach you how websites are created and what their basic vulnerabilities are. Within the first few hours, you'll have a lab environment set up where you can safely practice techniques such as SQL injections and cross-site scripting. Before long, you'll be able to sniff out every backdoor into a company's network—whether that's through email or an unsecured Wi-Fi router. From there, you'll have all the skills you need to be qualified as a penetration testing expert, using tools like Kali Linux or Nmap to find and patch any system's security holes. All told, the bundle includes 46 hours of training with certificates of completion for each course. PCMag readers can get The 2021 All-in-One Ethical Hacking & Penetration Testing Bundle for $29.99—98% off the $1,800 MSRP. Prices are subject to change.