Title: What Do TV Model Numbers and SKUs Actually Mean? How to Know If You're Getting a Good Deal

Text: Several times a year, electronics retailers slash prices on products as part of seasonal and holiday sales. Super Bowl weekend, President's Day, Amazon Prime Day, and of course Black Friday offer sizable discounts on big-ticket electronics like TVs. You might be able to find a great television for an amazing price during these sales. You might also wind up with a mediocre model you ultimately paid too much for, because product names and labels are confusing. When you're shopping for a TV, the brand name can be a factor in features, design, and general quality. It's far from the biggest factor, however, because every TV manufacturer makes multiple lines of products. There are budget-friendly TVs with low price tags and unambitious performance. There are midrange models with modest prices and performance to match. And there are high-end televisions with impressive performance and sky-high prices. And, after testing many of them, we’ve found that there are also budget TVs with great picture quality and pricey panels that aren’t up to snuff. If you simply follow a sale and buy a "Samsung TV" or a "Sony TV" or any other TV just because it has a discount, you'll have no idea exactly what kind of TV you're buying, or how good it is. See How We Test TVs This is where stock keeping units, or SKUs, come in. In retail, SKUs are identifiers for specific versions of products. They identify the individual model of a given item, like a TV. Think of them as labels that let you figure out exactly what you’re buying when an ad or even the product box isn't completely clear on it. Television SKUs are long and complex strings of letters and numbers that define a variety of aspects of each model. They can show the product line, screen size, and even individual retailer variants of TVs, and they're the key to decoding just how good a TV on sale is. They're also wildly different for each TV manufacturer. With that in mind, here's a handy guide to decoding the SKUs of different TV manufacturers. It's a complicated system, but once you break down each label to its parts, it becomes much easier to navigate. The Parts of the Number Every television SKU can be broken down into individual components. Once you can identify these components, you can figure out things like screen size, tier/quality level, and even retailer exclusivity. Depending on the manufacturer, TV SKUs have three to five parts, including: Screen Size: A number indicating how big the TV is. Product Line: A set of letters or numbers indicating what product series the model is in. Generation: A set of letters or numbers indicating what year the TV was made. Retailer Sub-Model: A number indicating a specific model is intended to be sold at a specific retailer. Other Variations: A set of letters or numbers indicating the TV is of a specific variety outside of its product series. Hisense, for example, designates Android TVs with an H and Roku TVs with an R, and LG specifically calls out OLED TVs with the OLED designation. Fluff: Additional numbers or letters that indicate the sales region or other broad categorizations that are similar or identical across all TVs available from the manufacturer in your market. Now that you know the basics, let's break it down by specific manufacturers. Advertisement Hisense Example: Hisense 65H9G, the 65-inch version of Hisense's 2019 flagship line. The 65 at the beginning shows that Hisense puts screen sizes at the start of the product number. The H means it's an Android TV. If it was a Roku TV, it would have an R instead. The 9 after the H means it's Hisense's flagship line. Lower-end TVs include the H8 and H6. The G means it's a 2020 model. 2019 TVs have an F at the end, while 2018 TVs have an E. LG (LED) Example: LG 65NANO80UPA, a 65-inch NanoCell LCD TV. The 65 at the beginning indicates the screen size. The NANO is the generational and tier designation, showing that it's a 2020 or 2021 model and a NanoCell TV, which are LG's higher-end LCD TVs. UN and UP are lower-end LCD TVs, while SM indicates that it's a 2019 model. The 80 shows the tier of TV within the NanoCell category. This number ranges from 75 to 99, so 80 indicates a relatively lower tier. The UPA is fluff for 2020 models, and can also say APA or ANA. LG (OLED) Example: LG OLED65C1AUB, the 65-inch model of LG's 2021 midrange 4K OLED TV. LG's OLED name structures are significantly different. The OLED at the beginning shows it's an OLED TV. The 65 indicates the screen size. The C shows the product line, with higher letters generally indicating higher-tier versions with sleeker designs or more features. G, for example, has a fancier "gallery" design. The 1 is the generational designation, and indicates a 2021 model. 2020 models are X (as in 10), and the number rolled over to 1 for 2021. 2019 models are 9. The PUA is fluff, and can be ignored. Samsung (QLED) Example: QN65Q80AAFXZC, the 65-inch model of a 2021 midrange Samsung QLED TV. The QN indicates it's a QLED TV, a higher-end LED TV compared with Samsung’s broader range of LED-backlit LCD TVs (which are identified with a UN). The 65 is screen size. The Q80 shows it's a midrange QLED. Lower numbers indicate lower tiers, from Q60 to Q90. Three digits (like Q900) would indicate an 8K TV. The (first) A shows it's a 2021 model. Before that, T indicated a 2020 model. The AFXZA is fluff, and can be ignored. Samsung (Non-QLED) Example: Samsung UN65TU8000FXZA, the 65-inch version of a 2020 Samsung midrange non-QLED TV. The UN indicates it's a non-QLED TV. The 65 is screen size. 2020 TVs have a TU and 2019 TVs have an RU, with one slightly confusing exception. The RU9000 is a 2020 TV, while lower-tier non-QLED TVs are TU. If it says RU but isn't followed by a 9000, it's a 2019 model. The four-digit number is the product series. The first digit indicates the tier, with higher numbers meaning higher-end models. The last three digits usually indicate retailer-specific models and other variations; a TU8000 might be stock for Samsung, while TU8150 could be a Best Buy-specific version that's extremely similar in performance and build quality, with a few small differences. The FXZA, like AFXZC, is fluff and can be ignored. Sony Example: Sony XR-65A90J, Sony's 2021 flagship OLED TV The XR indicates that the TV is one of Sony’s higher-end models (and can also say XBR), but it doesn’t show the specific product line. KD and KDL indicate lower-end Sony TVs. The 65 once again shows screen size. The A shows that the TV is an OLED. Sony A-series TVs are OLED, while its X- and Z-series TVs are LED. The 90 indicates the position of the TV at the top of Sony's product lines. A lower number indicates a TV that isn't part of Sony’s Master Series flagships, like the A80J. Single numbers show high-end Sony models, while three-digit numbers sit below them, again counting down; the X95J is higher than the X90J, and so on. The J at the end indicates that the TV is a 2021 model. An H indicates a 2020 TV (with the exception of the A9S Master Series OLED TV, also a 2020 model), while a G indicates a 2019 TV. TCL Example: TCL 55R635, the 65-inch model in TCL's 2020 6-series of higher-end budget TVs. The 65, again, is screen size. The R635 is confusing and complicated. The R6 indicates that the TV is part of the 6-series. The flagship 8-series is denoted by Q8, while the lower-end 4- and 5-series are denoted by S4 and S5. The 35 shows that the TV is the 2020 version of the 6-series. A 25 indicates a 2019 model, which applies to the 4-, 5-, and 6- series. The 8-series hasn't been updated since 2019, so there's only Q825. If that isn't confusing enough, the last digit can also vary slightly. Basically, pay close attention to TCL product numbers.