Title: Streamline Your Workflow With This Discounted Project Management Tool

Text: Project management is a hot topic in the business world these days. Many a meeting has been held to determine what kind of methodology to use, which team members will execute each task, and a variety of other minutiae. The thing is, the more you focus on the details, the easier it is to get bogged down in them—unless you've got a reliable map of the entire process. That's where good project management software comes in. If you're not familiar with Gantt charts, they have long been a reliable way for managers and team members to keep track of individual tasks and the big picture in real-time. And while keeping a Gantt chart up-to-date can be a whole job in itself, there's now a tool that makes it simple for anyone: Edraw Project Software. Setting up a project can take just a few minutes and it's a great way to get familiar with the intuitive interface. Lay out tasks in a basic way or assign any number of variables to each: priority level, resources needed, deadlines, cost—the list goes on. The basic view highlights the important info at a glance, but can quickly be expanded to give you updates and let you change any of these variables. In classic Gantt chart format, these tasks are also visible as a timeline on the right side of the screen. This gives you the real bird's-eye-view of your project, and lets you see which tasks are waiting on another team and which team members are ready for the next step. Dependent tasks can be linked to other tasks, and teams can be re-assigned as necessary. All this can be accomplished in a few clicks, thanks to the drag-and-drop interface, and your charts can also be exported into other leading office software platforms. Ready to bring some real efficiency into your next project? PCMag readers can get lifetime access (plus three years of upgrades and maintenance) to Edraw Project Software for $89.99—49% off the $179 MSRP. Prices are subject to change.