Title: AndaSeat T-Pro 2 Series Gaming Chair Review

Text: Among conventional (high-backed, lever-reclining, non-mesh) gaming chairs, SecretLab has long been our favorite manufacturer for nailing the sweet spot between price and build quality. Yet, AndaSeat surprised us with a comparable chair last year, one that featured Spider-Man’s face. The AndaSeat Spider-Man Edition Marvel Collaboration gaming chair wasn’t for everyone, but it showed that the company could make a good chair. And the AndaSeat T-Pro 2 confirms it. You don't need to be a Marvel fan to like the $499.99 T-Pro 2, and it’s covered in fabric rather than the much more common faux leather. It’s so well-made, sturdy, and comfortable, that it earns our Editors' Choice for fabric gaming chairs. Assembling the AndaSeat T-Pro 2 The T-Pro 2's assembly is pretty standard fare. Put the casters and air piston cylinder in the sturdy black aluminum base. Bolt the arm rests and back of the chair to the bottom of the chair. Finally, put the nearly assembled chair on the cylinder. That's it. The process is fairly simple and direct. Build Quality Instead of faux leather, the T-Pro 2 is upholstered with a soft linen fabric (available in black, blue and black, or gray and black) over foam, like the SecretLab’s SoftWeave chairs. Fabric breathes better than PU leather, but it can potentially stain more easily, too. The material seems fairly durable, and should hold up well to minor abrasions and wear from normal use. If you prefer PU leather, check out the AndaSeat Kaiser 2. The chair appears nearly identical to the T-Pro 2 in size, design, and capacity, but features upholstered faux leather instead of fabric. We have not yet tested the Kaiser 2, but if its material is anything like the AndaSeat Spider-Man Edition, it will be of high quality. The padding under the fabric is a dense, molded foam that solidly covers the chair's back and bottom. The foam is slightly lighter around the seat's “wings" on either side of the sitting surface, and the chair's back panel has a good bit of give, but it’s still well-padded. The foam isn’t quite as stiff or dense as the SecretLab Titan's, but it carries a solid feel. If you enjoy a slightly softer sit, you may prefer the T-Pro 2's cushions. The casters are hard plastic, but fairly wide, and roll smoothly across carpet. The aluminum base is a rare treat; too often, bases are made of hard plastic that can potentially chip or otherwise break. The chair comes with a headrest pillow and a lumbar cushion. The headrest pillow is a pinched rectangle with an elastic strap for attaching to the top of the chair's back. The lumbar cushion is a more stark rectangle with a slightly curved surface on the front face, and no strap (though it sits easily against the bottom of the chair's back, and doesn’t easily move from that position). Both cushions are excellent, filled with memory foam and covered with soft, felt-like fabric. The T-Pro 2 has the standard adjustments that you'd expect from a large gaming chair. You can change the height thanks to the air piston cylinder, of course. The chair's back reclines from 90 to 160 degrees with the pull of a lever, and the entire chair can freely tilt back and forth or stay locked in a flat or tilted position with the twist of another lever. The armrests can also be shifted left and right, forward and backward, up and down, and set at one of three different horizontal angles. In short, there are many options here. The T-Pro 2 has a 21.65-inch seat width, a 23.03-inch seat depth, and a 34.17-inch backrest height. It has a 330-pound recommended weight capacity, as well as a 440-pound maximum weight capacity, that puts it closer to the larger SecretLab Titan XL than the regular Titan. The chair has a two-year warranty for all functional features (not including aesthetic problems, such as stains). I sat for a while in the T-Pro 2, and was pleased by the experience. It’s a solid, supportive chair with soft, sturdy fabric. The components are well-made, and it was easy to set the chair into a comfortable position. I have no real complaints about the T-Pro 2's feel and build quality. A More-Than-Solid Seat The AndaSeat T-Pro 2 is well-made, comfortable, and comparable with the SecretLab Titan and Titan XL. Its padding isn’t quite as dense and complete as SecretLab’s, and the chair is slightly more expensive, but it’s still among the best we’ve seen, and one of very few available in fabric. In fact, the T-Pro 2's build quality earns it our Editors' Choice award as a fabric gaming chair, though our favorite PU leather chair is still the SecretLab Titan. If you would prefer a lighter, more minimalist gaming chair, the $555 Mavix M5 is an ergonomic, mesh-backed option available for a bit more than the T-Pro 2. Or you could really splurge and get the $1,600 Herman Miller X Logitech G Embody gaming chair, which comfortably and nearly automatically conforms to your body. On the other end of the spectrum, the $259 GTRacing Ace M1 offers a solid seat for much less than SecretLab and AndaSeat's chairs, though it compromises some quality.