Title: 13 EA Games Get FPS Boost for Xbox Series X|S

Text: (Photo by Mika Baumeister on Unsplash) This week, 13 EA titles have seen their framerate greatly improved on the latest Xbox consoles thanks to Microsoft's FPS Boost feature. With the launch of the Xbox Series X and Series S last year, Microsoft promised to make old games look and play better on the new hardware. The backward compatibility team developed the FPS Boost feature to achieve that, which works by nearly doubling the framerate on select titles. Better framerates mean a smoother gameplay experience, but sometimes at the cost of a slight resolution drop. The 13 EA games that can now take advantage of FPS Boost include: Battlefield 1 Battlefield 4 Battlefield V Mirror’s Edge Catalyst Plants vs. Zombies Garden Warfare Plants vs. Zombies: Battle for Neighborville Plants vs. Zombies Garden Warfare 2 Sea of Solitude 60hz 60hz Star Wars Battlefront Star Wars Battlefront II Titanfall Titanfall 2 Unravel 2 With the exception of Sea of Solitude, all these games now have 120Hz support on Xbox Series X. The same is true on Xbox Series S, but with one key difference. In order for 120Hz to be achieved, the resolution of some games needs to be dropped. So Series S owners won't have 120Hz support enabled by default; they just need to turn it on if they don't mind taking the resolution hit. As for Sea of Solitude, it gets 60Hz support on both consoles. Larry Hryb, Senior Director Corporate Communications at Microsoft (aka Major Nelson), created the video above demonstrating how to enable FPS Boost for a game using the Xbox interface. It's a quick process and requires turning on both Auto HDR and FPS Boost. With these 13 new games, Microsoft now has 23 titles taking advantage of the boost feature, including a number of Bethesda's best known games. We should expect regular new additions to the list as Microsoft continues to support more titles and breathe new life into older gameplay experiences. Meanwhile, Sony seemed to be moving in the opposite direction this month. As well as only supporting backward compatibility and performance enhancements for PS4 games on PS5, it was announced that the PS3, PS Vita, and PSP digital stores would be closed later this year. Thankfully, Sony realized it had made a mistake and decided to keep both the PS3 and PS Vita stores open.