Title: The Most Watched Shows on Netflix This Week

Text: Dad Stop Embarrassing Me! (Image: Saeed Adyani/Netflix) Reelgood.com helps people find out if the TV shows (and movies) they want to watch are streaming, and on what service to find them. It also pulls a lot of data from its 4 million monthly users about what they're watching and uses that to extrapolate the most-watched programming in a given week. Below you'll find the top shows streamed on Netflix last week in descending order. They're not all Netflix Originals—some are fantastic programs from other sources that just happen to be rocking the streaming world right now. Use it to compare your tastes—or to get an idea of what you should binge next. Advertisement The Baker and the Beauty ABC’s dramedy from 2020 is about a good-son baker in Miami who meets an international superstar/model. Worlds collide over dessert! It’s based on a show from Israel. And it’s already canceled, so enjoy this single, nine-episode season. The Circle This isn’t the movie with Emma Watson. This is a Netflix Original reality show competition that challenges people to become influencers while only interacting virtually. Season one was popular in a pre-pandemic 2020, when having people locked in their apartments talking via video chat was a novelty. Season two is now streaming, and it's one of the few Netflix shows that airs week-to-week. Catch up on the first eight episodes now; the final two arrive on April 28. Good Girls Three seasons of this NBC series, about women who break bad and turn to crime to get back their power, are on Netflix. Schitt’s Creek This surprise hit is all about a rich family who once bought a town as a joke. As it turns out, the joke’s on them when they lose everything else they own and have to move there. All six seasons of this Mature-rated future classic are streaming on Netflix. Dad Stop Embarrassing Me! Inexplicably, certified movie star and Oscar-winner Jamie Foxx (with David Alan Grier as his dad!) has returned to TV doing a multi-camera sitcom for Netflix. Not that there's anything wrong with that, as long as it's funny. The Irregulars In the canon of Sherlock Holmes, the Baker Street Irregulars were London’s homeless urchins who acted as the great detective's street-level eyes and ears. They take center stage here, hired by Dr. Watson (Holmes is missing!) to take on a supernatural evil. Black Mirror Netflix’s answer to The Twilight Zone, always with a digital focus and twists and turns galore, is worth watching. Video of the NYPD testing a robot dog recently sparked comparisons to the frightening "Metalhead" episode of Black Mirror, though that was one of our least favorite installments of the show. Better Call Saul The prequel to Breaking Bad wrapped up its penultimate fifth season on AMC last year, but there are four seasons to catch up with on Netflix. Learn just how bad it gets for Jimmy McGill that he'd ever become as big a sleaze as Saul Goodman. The Serpent A BBC/Netflix joint production, The Serpent mini-series is about 1970s serial killer Charles Sobhraj, who killed travelers and then used their passports to get around the world with his girlfriend (played by Doctor Who’s Jenna Coleman).