Title: 8 garden box subscriptions and seed delivery services for 2021

Text: Spring means two things to me: grills and gardens. There is no better time than now to get your garden or grow space planted for the best possible returns when that sunshine really hits. As much as we all love Lowe's garden center, making fewer trips to crowded stores helps keep cases of you-know-what down. (We're almost there, people.) Instead, dig into these online seed, plant and bulb delivery services and garden box subscriptions that send seeds, seedlings, flower bulbs, chutes and even full-grown plants along with care instructions, gardening accessories and safe growing aids to your door. For the green-thumbed, buying quality seeds, seedlings, bulbs and chutes online from these subscription services will help maximize your yield. Many of them function as sprawling online bulb, plant and seed marketplaces, but if you're indecisive -- like me -- you can simply input your growing goals and sign up for a monthly subscription to receive shipments of flowering plants, seeds and gear sent to your home. Every garden is different, of course, so most of these plant delivery and garden subscription services take steps to find out both what you'd like to grow and where you plan to grow it. Whether it's pretty flowers and houseplants or outdoor plants, vegetables and produce you want to grow, some of these services will tailor your plant delivery to help you curate the garden of your dreams. Don't have an outdoor growing space or garden at all? Don't worry: There is a slew of urban gardens and mini-farm stands designed to function without any earth or even access to regular sun. These nifty indoor grow systems like and use self-contained seed pods and chutes to avoid messy soil situations. Some even come with their own synthetic lighting to sprout plants, produce, herbs and fresh flowers in the most unlikely of growing environments. See our list of the best indoor gardens in 2021. No matter your growing setup or situation, there is a home garden service that will help you hone your green thumb or make an ideal gift for an aspiring gardener. Check out these great online plant delivery services, garden box subscriptions available in 2021. Read more: Best places to buy plants online for 2021 Make and Grow This garden delivery service offers three distinct box types depending on your home garden plans: The DIY Edible Flower Garden, for instance, includes seeds for growing pretty floral garnishes like violas, calendula and borage. It's perfect for the home mixologist looking to add some summer botanicals to their operation. There is also a DIY Tea Herb Garden Kit to grow and dry things like chamomile and peppermint or the DIY Garden Kit for Kids. Urban Organic Gardener This seed of the month club has monthly plans starting as low as $7. You'll get heirloom seeds delivered to your doorsteps for growing herbs, vegetables, legumes and more. The subscription starts with a short questionnaire about what kind of garden you have -- indoor, outdoor, hydroponic, low light and more -- and what kind of gardening you'd like to do. You can cancel or pause anytime (like during the offseason). The surprise seed subscription is just $5 per month, while the Pro membership is closer to $15 but includes more seeds and allows for more specification. Etsy Etsy has just about everything one could need to craft, collect, create and garden too. The sprawling online marketplace has endless varieties of seeds, bulbs, plants, gardening equipment and accessories. Been searching for that elusive skeleton flower diphylleia grayi? Of course you are, and Etsy has it. How about a surprise heirloom tomato seed mix? Yes, you'll find that too. Leaf'd Box If you're trying to get your garden in shape, Leaf'd Box may be the easiest way to do it. My box of small veggie plants showed up on time and in healthy condition, ready to go into the soil. The garden service will take an order for whatever it is you want to grow -- veggies, herbs, lettuce and other produce. Then the gardeners grow 'em for you up to the right size for planting and send a box four times a year with plants that thrive during that season, and in your climate. All plant subscription kits are available through the website and pricing is as follows: Herb Garden (10 plants): $45 per season $45 per season Small Veggie (10 plants): $45 per season $45 per season Medium Veggie (30 plants): $90 per season $90 per season Veggie XL (60 plants): $180 per season Easy Come Easy Grow This monthly vegetable and herb seed subscription includes three different in-season herbs and vegetable seeds at under $6 per month. This company's seeds come from Australia and include plants like coriander, sorrel and various lettuces. My Garden Box My Garden Box is perfect for the indoor plant-obsessed. Each shipment includes a new houseplant and planter with soil, rocks for drainage and instructions for care. This delivery service is great if you have lots of space for indoor plants and want to keep expanding your indoor greenery, or if you want to send a one-time gift to a plant lover. Plans start at around $35 per month. Bloomin' Bin is a seed subscription box that is perfect for those who want to grow both produce and flowers. You can customize your order, starting at under $8 per month, to include seeds for wildflowers only, vegetables only or a combination of both. Some plans like the Basic Bin include both seeds and live plants, while others like the Just Seeds plan include only, well, seeds. The Premium Bin plan, on the other hand, contains seeds, a soil/plant food sample, pot, grow bag and a project or garden tool. Nature Hills If you've got plans for some serious gardening or landscaping, the plant collection at Nature Hills is a good place to start for blooming plants, potted plant options and more. It's got everything from houseplant options and perennial flowers to literal trees, shrubs and vines. You can find fruit trees and plants here, too, including apple, citrus and stone fruit trees, along with a wide range of berry bushes. More subscription service and garden recommendations 