Title: How to use Zoom like a pro: 15 video chat tips and tricks to try today

Text: Sarah Tew/CNET The Zoom video meeting and chat app has become the wildly popular host to millions of people working, studying and socializing from home during the pandemic. Despite a number of privacy and security issues that arose alongside the platform's rapid growth, it now features end-to-end encryption and other ways to protect your account and your chats from Zoombombing and other privacy flaws. The platform also added a marketplace for virtual events, and is testing app integrations such as Slack and Dropbox. Whether you've been using Zoom for years or have only just signed up last year, there are a number of helpful and fun tips, tricks and hidden features you can find to upgrade your video chatting experience and make your video meetings a little less weird. Here are 15 ways to become a Zoom master. Read more: Ultimate webcam tips: How to look and sound great online 1. Change your background Screenshot by Alison DeNisco Rayome/CNET Virtually transport yourself to the beach, outer space or anywhere else you can imagine by customizing your background while on Zoom calls -- everyone's doing it these days. You can read our step-by-step guide to changing your Zoom background on the desktop and mobile app, but basically you go to Settings > Virtual Background and select or upload the image you want from there. However, you do have to make sure that your system meets all of the requirements to do so. Read more: 10 free Zoom alternative apps for video chats 2. Mute your audio and turn off your camera by default Diving for the mute audio and camera buttons as soon as you enter a meeting can get old. Keep your coworkers from seeing your bedhead or hearing your cat screeching by turning those off by default. To do it, go to Settings > Audio > Mute microphone when joining a meeting, and then Settings > Video > Turn off my video when joining a meeting. 3. Mute and unmute with the space bar When you are called on to speak, stop scrambling to click the microphone button. You can press and hold the spacebar to quickly mute and unmute your mic, right from your keyboard. Read more: Zoom, Skype, FaceTime: 11 tips for your video chat apps 4. Turn on the beauty filter  At this point, if you know all of the work from home advice about getting dressed and ready like it's a regular work day, but still don't think you're looking your best, Zoom's Touch Up My Appearance feature may be for you. The filter aims to smooth over your appearance, making you look dewy and well-rested. If you've ever used beauty mode on your phone's selfie camera, you know what you're getting. To turn it on, click the up arrow next to Start Video. Click Video Settings, and under My Video, check the box for Touch Up My Appearance. 5. Set up a waiting room for added privacy You've probably heard about Zoombombing -- when uninvited guests crash your Zoom meeting and disrupt it. One way to help prevent this from happening is by enabling the Waiting Room feature, so you can see who's attempting to join the meeting before allowing them access. To do so, go to Account Management > Account Settings. Click on Meeting, then click Waiting Room to enable the setting. (We've got more tips on how to prevent Zoombombing in your meetings here.) Read more: 'I am not a cat': Find and use the infamous lawyer cat filter everyone's talking about Now playing: Watch this: Weekend Zoom calls have exploded. Here's how the company... 6. Create breakout rooms for smaller group discussion Split your big Zoom meeting into up to 50 separate smaller sessions with breakout rooms. The meeting host can choose to split meeting participants into separate sessions automatically or manually, or can let participants select and enter any breakout session they like. The host can switch between sessions at any point. To start a breakout room as the host, go to Account Management > Account Settings. Under the Meeting tab, go to Breakout Room, and make sure the setting is toggled on. You'll also see the option to allow meeting hosts to preassign participants to breakout rooms. (If the Breakout Room option is grayed out, that means it's been locked, and you need to contact your Zoom administrator.) 7. Share your screen Share your screen for a Zoom meeting (or to watch a movie or play a game) with other participants by clicking the Share screen icon on the toolbar at the bottom of the meeting screen. You'll have the option to share your entire desktop, or just one of the windows you have open. Click the red Stop Share button at the top of the screen to go back to being a normal participant in the meeting. 8. React with emoji on screen If you're muted in a meeting, you can still let the hosts know your thoughts with emoji reactions. Send a thumbs up or a clapping emoji to communicate without interrupting the meeting (by default, those reactions have a yellow skin tone, but you can customize that on the Zoom desktop app). To react during a meeting, click the Reactions tab at the bottom of the meeting screen (it's in the same panel as mute audio and video, to the right) and choose the one you want. Emoji will disappear after 5 seconds. If the meeting organizer enables the nonverbal feedback feature, participants can place an icon such as a raised hand next to their name to communicate. Every participant will be able to see each other's feedback. Angela Lang/CNET 9. Learn handy keyboard shortcuts For those who don't like clicking around their screen, Zoom has a ton of helpful keyboard shortcuts to help you navigate the app on your desktop without using your mouse. Find commands to join a meeting, start or stop recording, enter full screen and share your screen (more on that below). Check out Zoom's full list of hot keys and keyboard shortcuts. 10. Turn on gallery view Gallery view lets you see everyone in the meeting at once, instead of just the person speaking. To turn that on, click the tab that says "Gallery view" in the top right corner. If the meeting has 49 or fewer attendees, you'll see all of their screens displayed on one page. If there are more, you'll have the option to move between multiple pages. Change it back by clicking "Speaker view" in that same top right corner. 11. Hide nonvideo participants On a larger call, your screen can get cluttered with participants, which can be distracting, especially if some don't have their cameras on. Hide the participants who aren't using video by going to Settings > Video > Meetings, and check Hide nonvideo participants. Now you'll only be distracted by your co-workers' pets and children who appear on video. 12. Record the meeting to your computer  Both free and paid Zoom subscribers can record their meeting to their laptop or computer using the desktop app (you can't record on mobile at the moment, unless you have a paid account -- keep reading for more on that). Those recorded files can then be uploaded to a file storage service such as Google Drive or Dropbox, or a video streaming service such as YouTube or Vimeo. To enable local recording, go to Settings > Recording, and toggle it on. When you're hosting a Zoom meeting, click the Record icon on the bottom toolbar. Angela Lang/CNET 13. Record a meeting to the cloud If you have one of Zoom's paid plans (which start at $15 a month), you can take a recording that will save directly to the cloud (or to your computer if you prefer). Tap the record button on the bottom toolbar, and you'll have the option to make it either local or in the cloud. You can do this on either desktop or mobile. 14. Host a group meeting longer than 40 minutes On Zoom's free basic tier, group meetings can only last up to 40 minutes (though one-on-one meetings are unlimited in time). To get unlimited group time, upgrade to a paid account. (However, for Thanksgiving, Zoom has removed the 40 minute time limit for free accounts, so your virtual family gatherings won't be cut short.) 15. Host more than 100 people If you have a group of more than 100 people to host for work or school, you have to upgrade to a paid professional account. If you upgrade to the highest tier (Enterprise Plus), you can host up to 1,000 participants. Watch our video on how to make your webcam video look and sound great online and make sure to subscribe to the How To Do It All channel on YouTube for more how to videos.