Title: Best Mother's Day 2021 gifts under $50

Text: Mother's Day Gift Guide 2021 Mother's Day is coming up fast: Sunday, May 9. The best news is that, this year, many of us will be able to safely give Mom a hug, which instantly makes this a huge improvement over Mother's Day 2020. With that done, however, you'll still want to give her a token of your appreciation. No worries: CNET has a full list of ideas for Mother's Day gifts under $25 if you're looking for something small, or in the $51-to-$100 range if you have more to spend. You can also check out all of our favorite gifts for Mother's Day, or if you want to send Mom a beautiful bouquet of fresh flowers, check out our list of the best flower delivery services. Can your budget stretch up to $50? Here are several gift ideas in that range, many of them fully reviewed or anecdotally tested by CNET editors. Read more: Mother's Day cards you can buy online that are actually funny Sarah Tew/CNET If Mom already has a phone, why does she need a tablet? Simple: Maybe she wants to unplug from things like email, text messages and calendar reminders, and just kick back with a book, a Bridgerton binge or some bigger-screen TikTok. The Fire 7 is a Cheapskate Hall of Fame winner because it delivers incredible bang for the buck. It normally sells for $50, but frequently goes on sale for $40 or even less. (You've got a bit of time left before Mother's Day, so watch for Amazon's next sale.) Read our Amazon Fire 7 (2019) review. Mixtiles Free some of Mom's best photos from her phone and turn them into memorable 8x8-inch tiles that can stick -- and re-stick -- just about anywhere. I think Mixtiles make a really great gift, whether you order just a couple or a whole wall's worth. To help keep you under $50, use promo code CNET30OFFSALE to get 30% off your entire order. (Here's more info on that Mother's Day deal.) Tile Solve two of Mom's biggest problems -- can't find her keys, can't find her phone -- with one device. The Tile Pro links the two via Bluetooth, so all it takes is the press of a button or tap of an app to help locate one or the other. Why choose this over Apple's new AirTags for $29? For one thing, AirTags are for iPhone users only -- so no good for Mom if she has an Android phone. For another, they're one-way: There's no button to press on an AirTag to help locate a missing phone. Amazon If your mom is a coffee fan and still missing her daily Starbucks runs, a classic Chemex pour-over coffeemaker might be the perfect Mother's Day gift. (Mrs. Cheapskate, the mom in my household, is a newfound fan; we've fully abandoned our Keurig for it.) For other ideas, check out more of our top coffee accessories of 2021. Sarah Tew/CNET Think Mom would enjoy an Apple AirPods alternative as her Mother's Day gift? Enacfire isn't exactly a household name, but the company's A9 earbuds earned a spot on CNET's top budget true-wireless earbuds list. Specs include ANC (active noise-canceling) with transparency mode, Bluetooth 5.0 and an IPX7 waterproof rating. Pretty amazing for just $50. And an on-page coupon, available as of this writing, drops them to $40. More gift ideas