Title: Sunny Health And Fitness' Foldable Treadmill Is $50 Off Today

Text: Setting up a home gym may have felt like a necessary evil last year, but a lot of us have now come to love the ease of a convenient, membership-free setup. It’s pretty great to have somewhere to slip in quick workouts in between video calls, right? But, creating the ideal home gym is easier said than done if you don’t want your setup to take up too much square footage. I mean, there will come a day when you won't want your living room to be covered in ankle weights and resistance bands. Foldable Treadmill Sunny Health & Fitness $399.00 SHOP NOW If you’re looking for a space-efficient way to get in your run, you’re in luck. Right now, Amazon is slashing the price of Sunny Health & Fitness’s insanely popular treadmill ( ). This may look like a run-of-the-mill treadmill at first glance, but it has over 1,000 five-star reviews on Amazon, a 4.4/5 rating, and the highly-coveted “Amazon's Choice” badge of approval. Decked out with nine pre-structured running programs and three adjustable incline settings, this versatile treadmill is perfect for runners, incline walkers, and aspiring marathoners alike. Satisfied customers especially rave about the belt’s light cushioning to minimize impact on your joints. And, of course you want to keep tabs on your stats, so there’s an LCD monitor that will track your pulse in addition to the time and distance of your workouts. Best of all? The compact design easily folds up to be stored in a closet or under your couch seamlessly, so you can squeeze in a workout sessioin without cramping your home decor style. While this treadmill normally costs $408, Amazon is currently shaving over $50 off the asking price. At $356, this treadmill isn’t necessarily cheap. But, when you compare it to the money and time you spent on a gym membership, it’s money well spent. Shop more Amazon sales on slickdeals.  Kelsey Mulvey Kelsey Mulvey is a freelance lifestyle journalist, who covers shopping and deals for Marie Claire, Women's Health, and Men's Health, among others. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io