Title: Everything You Need to Know About Running in the Cold

Text: The cooler temperatures are a welcome relief to many runners after an extremely hot (and sometimes humid) summer. Plus, with the coronavirus pandemic still in full swing, your mask will come in handy for not only preventing the spread of COVID-19, but also keeping your face warm. But if you’re new to running in lower temps, that means dressing differently for your run, which can get tricky. Follow this guide to everything you need to know about running in the cold. From what to expect to how to layer up, here’s how to avoid the treadmill and crush your outdoor runs all winter long. Join Runner’s World+ today to become a stronger, faster runner! Is Running in the Cold Dangerous? No, as long as you dress for the weather. When dressing to run in the cold, remember that once you get moving, your body heats up fast, which could result in overheating if you’re bundled up. Layering properly will help regulate your body temperature and keep risk of cold-related illnesses like hypothermia at bay. The opposite is also true: Once you stop running, you will cool down very quickly, so be prepared to get out of those wet clothes immediately upon finishing your run. It’s always wise to bring a change of dry clothes to put on as soon as you finish your run or to jump into a warm shower if readily available. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Cold Weather Running Essentials Dressing in layers is the key to running comfortably all winter. You can start the run feeling warm, then easily shed the layers as your body warms up and you need less clothing. Simply tie unneeded layers such as jackets or long sleeve shirts around your waist and keep running once you’re warm, or plan a loop run so you can drop them off in a safe spot—like your car—when you don’t need them. Remember to put your base layer on the bottom so as you strip layers off, the correct layer is underneath. When stocking up for the winter season, here are a few essentials you should fill your drawers with: Cold-Weather Gear Best Hat Merino Sport 250 Beanie Smartwool amazon.com SHOP NOW Made of 100 percent merino wool, this beanie is perfect for all wintry weather thanks to a double-locked construction. Best Base Layer Long Sleeve Training Top Nike amazon.com Shop Men’s Shop Women’s Nike’s dri-fit technology is designed to be ultralight and sweat-wicking while keeping you covered. Best Tights Coldgear Run Tight Under Armour amazon.com $75.00 Shop Women’s Shop Men’s Great for a base layer or on its own, these reflective tights will keep you warm without any awkward winter sweat. Best Jacket Repel Running Jacket Craft Sportswear amazon.com $174.99 Shop Men’s Shop Women’s The Repel Run has a tight yet stretchy fit, with four-way elasticity and Ventair wind- and waterproof fabric. Tips for Running When It’s Cold When dressing to run in cold weather, the rule of thumb is to add 10 to 20 degrees to the outside temperature to calculate your running temperature. Keep in mind that this number is dependent upon how quickly you heat up and cool down, run pace, and the length of your run.  So if you are going out for a short run, an easy-paced run, or you get cold easily, add 10 to 15 degrees to the outside temperature to estimate your running temperature. If you are going for a long run, doing a hard workout, or get warm easily, add 20 degrees to the outside temp. For example, if the thermometer says it’s 40 degrees outside, it’ll feel more like 50 to 60 degrees when running.  But you should also take the windchill factor into consideration. When winds are present, look at the “feels like” temperature to determine what to wear. For example, if the outside temp is 40 degrees, but the real feel is reported to be 30 degrees because of the wind chill, you’ll want to add 10 to 20 degrees to the lower temp.   When planning your run on windy, cold days, try to run into the wind on your way out and have the wind at your back on your return. It’s best to avoid running into the wind when you are wet and sweaty because you will chill very quickly. And finally, you want to focus on the smaller extremities such as your ears, hands, and feet. These areas are farther away from your heart, which means it takes more effort to get the blood flowing there, especially when all the blood is being directed to your larger muscles to power your run. Warm gloves, socks, and hats or ear covers are essential, even when you can go with a short sleeve shirt or shorts on some chill days. [ The 2021 Runner’s World Calendar features gorgeous photos, monthly motivation, and tips to inspire your running all year long.] What to Wear Running in the Cold Still wondering what you should wear? You can use our clever What to Wear tool, or use this quick guide. 60+ degrees: tank top and shorts 50–59 degrees: short sleeve tech shirt and shorts 40–49 degrees: long sleeve tech shirt, shorts or tights, gloves (optional), headband to cover ears (optional) 30–39 degrees: long sleeve tech shirt, shorts or tights, gloves, and headband to cover ears 20–29 degrees: two shirts layered—a long sleeve tech shirt and a short sleeve tech shirt or long sleeve shirt and jacket—tights, gloves, and headband or hat to cover ears 10–19 degrees: two shirts layered, tights, gloves or mittens, headband or hat, and windbreaker jacket/pants 0–9 degrees: two shirts layered, tights, windbreaker jacket/pants, mittens, headband or hat, ski mask to cover face How Cold Is Too Cold for Running Outside? When temperatures dip below freezing, be sure and pay attention to local weather information and warnings. Cold temperatures and dry air can aggravate some health conditions, so use your best judgment as to whether you should run outside or hit the treadmill instead. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io