Title: How to Run Faster and Longer

Text: Emphasize Endurance About fifteen years ago, transitioning to the marathon was seen as the death knell for speed. Then runners like Paula Radcliffe, Deena Kastor, and Dathan Ritzenhein returned to the track faster than ever in the months after racing 26.2 miles. Goodman believes preparing for the California International Marathon six months before her 10,000-meter race at Stanford made all the difference.  “I was running longer long runs and doing workouts within long runs,” says Goodman, who topped out at 85 miles per week during marathon training, 20 to 30 more than usual. Increasing your mileage comes with a host of benefits: increased capillary density, greater numbers of mitochondria, better usage of fat as fuel while running fast, muscle fiber adaptations, and higher glycogen storage. These cellular-level changes allow you to maintain a desired pace for a longer time by making your body more efficient with oxygen usage and energy production. “Years ago, I started running over 100 miles per week,” says Camille Herron, U.S. 100K record holder who owns a marathon best of 2:39. “That seemed to impact everything. Building that aerobic base translated to being able to sustain my speed for longer periods of time.” Increasing your mileage takes time. To make a 25-percent increase in volume, a person accustomed to running eight hours a week would now be running 10 hours, but eventually it will help you run faster. Frankie Adkins of Asheville, North Carolina, competed at a local level for almost 20 years before becoming an elite masters runner. In March of 2015, Adkins ran a 10K PR of 32:38 at the age of 41. For him the biggest challenge was finding a way to adapt his more rigorous training around the time constraints of family life and a sales-rep job that had him traveling several hours almost every day. “I fit my training around work and family, not the other way around,” he says. “There were certainly weeks where I looked at my training plan and my [work] schedule and thought there was no way I’d get it all in, but more often than not, I did it.” Adkins credits his coach, Peyton Hoyal, with helping him sort out his tricky scheduling. “I think having a training plan was crucial,” he says. “It kept me thinking of small 30- to 60-minute windows where I could get the training in.” Adding volume does increase the risk of overuse injuries such as IT band syndrome and tendinitis. To lower the risk, Ben Rosario, the head coach of Hoka One One Northern Arizona Elite, has two recommendations: “First, make sure you’re running on soft surfaces for the majority of your mileage,” he says. “Second would be to put an even bigger premium on postrun recovery; foam rolling, flexibility exercises, and massage are three big ones.” Rosario also says that when trying to develop the aerobic system, patience is a virtue. You may not get faster for a while, but workouts will get easier over time. “Sometimes it’s just about trusting what you’re doing,” he says. What to Change: Run more miles, even if you’re training for the 5K. Why: Upping your mileage safely is the best-known way to improve your aerobic capacity, which increases speed endurance or how long you can sustain a pace during a race.  The Challenge: Making a jump in mileage requires patience in order to avoid injury.