Title: Best Lightweight Running Shoes 2021

Text: Since the minimalism boom nearly a decade ago, lightweight running shoes have come a long way as both racing flats and everyday trainers. For instance, when brands simply cut cushioning to save ounces, runners saw mixed results. Fast forward to 2021, and new midsole foams now cater to almost any cushioning preference and still feel featherweight. On this list you’ll find both razor-thin racers, plusher shoes for your long run, and even trail models. While less shoe might not work for everyone, research shows there’s world enough for both “minimalist” and “maximalist” footwear if you build pace and mileage gradually. Lightest Tested Skechers GOrun Razor+ skechers.com $135.00 Buy Now Best for Speedwork Saucony Endorphin Speed amazon.com $160.00 Buy Now Best Multitasker Altra Solstice XT amazon.com $110.00 Buy Now Best for Trails Topo Athletic Runventure 3 amazon.com $120.00 Buy Now Best for Racing Brooks Hyperion Tempo zappos.com $149.95 Buy Now Down to a Science The appeal of lightweight shoes is based on speedier running performance and biomechanical science. Brands have refined the lightweight running shoe by analyzing stride and gait, using impact measuring devices, and constructing shoes to encourage natural form instead of correcting it. Flexible knit uppers, bouncier midsoles, and subtler tweaks like widened toe boxes and lower-drop platforms are all innovations that have come together in the creation of the present-day lightweight trainer. Not all lightweight trainers simulate barefoot running. Some shoes are moderately cushioned, making them ideal for runners who want to make the transition to minimalism, or for runners who want to go faster without sacrificing cushioning. The Mach 4 is the cushiest lightweight shoe we tested. Lakota Gambill The Razor+ is beefier than the previous version without adding too much weight. Lakota Gambill How We Tested The road and trail shoes below floated to the top of our charts as the lightest shoes in the bunch, and every pair offers some protective cushioning underfoot, according to our shoe lab data. Experiential testing was also an important factor in choosing the best lightweight trainers. Over 350 local wear-testers put in over 100 miles in each shoe, to evaluate ride, durability, and responsiveness. —MOST CUSHIONING— Hoka One One Mach 4 Weight: 8.2 oz. (M), 6.8 oz. (W) Release Date: March 1 Lakota Gambill Runner-in-Chief Jeff Dengate dubbed the Mach 4 “the best Mach yet, and perhaps the best current Hoka.” Our other testers agreed. One declared that it was her new favorite cushioned road shoe, and a first-time Hoka wearer said the shoe impressed her after her first run. The shoe looks deceivingly heavy with its protruding heel, which provides support for heel-strikers, but it rides fast like Saucony’s Endorphin Speed or Brooks’s Hyperion Tempo (also included on this list). Responsive Profly foam in the midsole and an early-stage Meta-Rocker (a slightly curved sole shape) propel you forward as you run. —BEST FOR SPEEDWORK— Altra Rivera Weight: 8.3 oz. (M), 6.7 oz. (W) Lakota Gambill Rivera Altra altrarunning.com $130.00 Buy Now Wide toe box Zero-drop stack height Less support We whizzed down straightaways in Altra’s Rivera, which replaces the Torin Mesh (both shoes have 26mm stack heights). It rides like you’re running barefoot with just enough protection underfoot to shield you from stray pebbles. The springy Ego midsole provides a thin layering of cushioning. Toes won’t cram in the wide toe box, and testers praised the seamless upper for its comfortable, hotspot-free fit. Disclaimer: Ease into these at a slow pace. One of our editors skinned a knee after planting on the sidewalk after 1 mile—then dusted herself off to run five more. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s —MOST RESILIENT— Saucony Endorphin Speed Weight: 7.8 oz. (M), 6.8 oz. (W) Saucony Endorphin Speed Saucony zappos.com $159.95 Buy Now PEBA-based foam is soft and bouncy Nylon plate provides a fast turnover Excels at training and racing speeds A toned-down version of the more expensive Endorphin Pro, the Speed is a hardy workhorse that can also careen down a marathon course. Its bouncy midsole contains PEBA-based foam, which delivers high rebound and supportive cushioning. For snappy turnover, the shoe has a flexible nylon plate, in contrast to the rigid, overhyped carbon fiber. “Speedroll” tech—a slight curvature of the sole that encourages a rocker-like motion—aids with swift heel-to-toe transitions on your run. Full Review —BEST FOR RACING— Brooks Hyperion Tempo Weight: 7.3 oz. (M), 6.7 oz. (W) Lakota Gambill Hyperion Tempo Brooks zappos.com $149.95 Buy Now Responsive nitrogen-infused foam midsole Less cushioning in the forefoot The Hyperion Tempo may be the “training shoe” to the Hyperion Elite 2, but don’t rule it out as a trainer for racing. The shoe is moderately cushioned, responsive, and more affordable than its $250 counterpart. Though it doesn’t have a carbon-fiber plate, its DNA Flash midsole, which is made of nitrogen-infused foam, offers impressive rebound. The Tempo also gets the upper hand in sizing. The shoe runs in men’s and women’s sizes, resulting in a snugger, true-to-size fit for women in contrast to the unisex-sized Elite. Buy Women’s —LIGHTEST WE’VE TESTED— Skechers GOrun Razor+ Weight: 6.9 oz. (M), 5.1 oz. (W) Lakota Gambill GOrun Razor+ Skechers skechers.com $135.00 Buy Now Adaptable mono-mesh upper Firm cushioning We awarded the GOrun Razor 3 Editors’ Choice for its super-light midsole that delivered punchy energy return. However, a couple of testers desired more support as they bolted on the uptempo during their runs. Instead of changing the Hyper Burst foam formula, Skechers beefed up the shoe with a mono-mesh upper, which stretches to accommodate different foot shapes, and replaced the minimalistic outsole with more resilient Goodyear rubber. These upgrades add an unnoticeable three-tenths of an ounce. The Razor+ preserves the original’s sleek silhouette and explosive ride. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s —BEST FOR STABILITY— Topo Athletic Ultrafly 3 Weight: 9.6 oz. (M) 7.7 oz. (W)  Lakota Gambill Ultrafly 3 Topo Athletic zappos.com $130.00 Buy Now Ample toe room Less cushioned than past iterations Heaviest shoe on this list The Ultrafly 3 reminds us of Brooks’s discontinued Asteria because it manages to incorporate stability features into a lightweight package. It has a unobtrusive medial post in the dual-density Zipfoam midsole and an external heel counter for ankle support. Even though it’s not as cushioned as previous models, the 3 had testers praising its resilience and comfort over long runs. The brand’s signature spacious toe box helps prevent black toenails and blisters. Full Review —BEST MULTITASKER— Altra Solstice XT Weight: 8.4 oz. (M), 6.9 oz. (W) Solstice XT Altra zappos.com $109.95 Buy Now Good for cross-training Not enough cushioning for long runs With the lightweight DNA of Altra’s Solstice racer and the make of a sturdy cross-training shoe, the XT version provides support for more dynamic activities like strength work and agility circuits. There’s enough cushioning for short everyday runs, but the Solstice XT’s moderately soft forefoot and firm heel keep you grounded while lifting weights or squatting. Deep grid-like grooves on the EVA midsole make it extremely flexible, while a large groove that runs down the center of the sole helps you keep your balance. Full Review —BEST FOR UPTEMPOS—  Reebok Floatride Run Fast 2 Weight: 7.6 oz. (M), 6.2 oz. (W) Reebok Floatride Run Fast 2 Reebok reebok.com $140.00 Buy Now Firm and light midsole Weighs more than the first generation Our testers were quick on their feet and loved how the Floatride made them feel speedier. Weighing only 6.9 ounces for men and 5.6 ounces for women, the shoe has an innovative Pebax-based midsole foam, which is lighter than the standard EVA. Fortunately, the midsole and outsole remain unchanged on this update. However, more than half an ounce has been added to the shoe, due to a thicker upper. Like when an artist launches a sophomore album that detracts from her original sound, we’re not too thrilled with the upper’s new design. But at its core, the Floatride retains what we loved and still manages to deliver impressive rebound. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s —BEST FOR LONG RUNS— Saucony Kinvara 12  Weight: 7.5 oz. (M), 6.5 oz. (W)  Saucony Saucony Kinvara 12 $110.00 saucony.com Buy Now Lighter than its predecessors Exposed foam in the midsole makes it less durable The Kinvara has returned to its roots with its 12th iteration. Besides being lighter and more flexible than the Kinvara 11, the 12 has more rebound and rides faster too. Saucony tweaked the Pwrrun foam’s mix of EVA and polymers to boost energy return, making the 12 feel firmer and more responsive. A slim layer of softer TPU-based Pwrrun+ sits on top to keep the shoe comfy as a daily trainer—long runs included.  Buy Men’s Buy Women’s —BEST FOR TRAILS— Topo Athletic Runventure 3 Weight: 9.5 oz. (M), 7.6 oz. (W) Runventure 3 Topo Athletic zappos.com $120.00 Buy Now Initially stiff in forefoot; needs breaking in The Runventure is slightly heavier compared to other shoes on this list (save the Ultrafly 3). But chalk that up to the rock plate in the forefoot, which serves as a protective buffer from jagged stones and roots. There’s still some ground-feel running in these shoes, and the weight won’t deter you from upping the tempo. The Vibram XS Trek EVO outsole was a favorite feature among testers, who said the shoe performed excellently on loose, muddy terrain. Full Review