Title: How to Convert KM to Miles

Text: This content is imported from Third party. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. If you have an upcoming race or just want to get precise with your workouts, having a pace converter tool at your disposal that helps you reach your goals is always useful for runners. One thing that isn’t helpful is trying to do math in your head while you run. Because you don’t want to be taken out of your zone or distracted from your music, we have this handy pace converter tool that makes it easier to know exactly what your pace will look like whether your race or workout is marked in miles or kilometers.  What this tool does: This running pace converter allows you to easily switch between miles and kilometers, both in pace per mile and distance per hour. Why use it: Because metric conversions are never easy. If you’ve run a marathon in the United States, then you likely tell everybody that you raced 26.2 miles. (With extra emphasis on that .2!) If you run a marathon with miles in mind, why do most of the shorter races get talked about in terms of kilometers, like 5K and 10K? [Build your personalized and adaptive training plan for FREE with Runcoach.] You know those distances are 3.1 miles and 6.2 miles, respectively, and most people likely race with miles in mind. But what if you sign up for a race overseas, where instead of regular mile markers you’re more likely to see things marked in kilometers? Or you actually do want to know what your splits per kilometer are in a 5K? It will be hard to do the mental math in the middle of a run. If you are trying to plan out a race and you’d like to know what your kilometer split is compared to your average mile time, this pace converter is a perfect tool. For example, if you are trying to run a 7:30 mile average for your race (that’s 8 miles in an hour of running), the pace converter will show you that in kilometers your pace is 4:39 minutes per km (and 12.87 km per hour). Bonus: The pace converter a great tool to figure out what speed to run at on a treadmill. How to use it: Enter in a value for any of the fields and the converter will calculate all other fields for you. Best Advanced GPS Watches for Runners Most Versatile Watch Series 5 Apple $406.06 BUY IT NOW Track your run (and everything else) with this intuitive smartwatch. Best Maps Grit X Polar $429.95 BUY NOW Trail runners will love this watch’s simple navigation. Best All-Rounder Forerunner 945 Garmin $599.99 $524.99 (13% off) BUY NOW Now with music and color maps, the 945 is the ultimate running watch. Stamina-Estimating Coros APEX Premium Multisport GPS Watch Coros $349.99 BUY NOW Precise GPS and a big battery highlight this feature-packed watch. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io