Title: Base Layers for Cold-Weather Running

Text: When the mercury plummets on that first freezing day in the winter, novice cold-weather warriors may scramble for a down jacket, hit the road looking like a marshmallow, and regret the decision several sweaty minutes later. Staying comfortable while running in cold weather is all about layering. It’s a fine balance—you want to be warm and dry from the outset without overheating or drowning in sweat after the first mile. Tucking a good base layer under an outer layer is the best way to split the difference. Not only will having a wool or tech layer snug against your skin wick the sweat away so you don’t come home damp and shaking, but you can also just wear it on its own if you miscalculated the forecast. All it takes is dialing in your layering strategy for winter to become your favorite season for running. Here’s how to become the ace of base of layers (sorry, I had to). The Art of Layering The best base layers for running will be relatively lightweight and sit close to the skin. That way, you can add more layers as necessary, including a waterproof or windproof jacket. A thin base layer under a light windproof shell might be the magic formula for warmth on a 40-degree day; on a below-freezing day, that same light layer might work just as well under a bulkier jacket. For temperatures below 20, look for a mid-weight or heavier-weight base layer. If you’re new to running in winter, check our guide to dressing for running in any weather. The Best Base Layer Fabrics Start your layering with moisture-wicking fabrics that draw sweat away so you stay dry and cozy. Cotton won’t do it—it absorbs too much water, which is why it takes so long to dry. Synthetic fabrics, like polyester and nylon, fall into this category—they’re described as “hydrophobic” because they resist water, so they won’t retain moisture against your body. Natural wool is also one of your best bets. Not only is it odor-resistant and warm overall, but it also wicks sweat through capillary action, releasing the moisture through small openings in the fabric. If you’ve ever worn a wool sweater, you’ve probably noticed that it doesn’t get wet very easily. You’ve probably also noticed it’s a bit itchy, which is why soft merino is generally the best option for a layer that sits close to your skin. How We Selected Every base layer here has been thoroughly evaluated and vetted by our team of test editors. We research the market, survey user reviews, speak with product managers, and use our own experience wearing and running in these base layers to determine the best options. Most have been tested by our staff, and those that haven’t have been carefully chosen based on their value, technical fabrics, comfort, looks, and ability to wick sweat and keep you warm and dry when the temp dips. Here are our picks. Tracksmith Brighton Base Layer Lakota Gambill Brighton Base Layer $88.00 SHOP NOW Seamless construction Sweat-wicking, odor-preventing engineered merino mesh Some pilling on the collar after a few wears Designed to be worn under a jacket, this soft merino shirt is so stylish and flattering we prefer just wearing it as a top layer during fall race season. It’s comfy and lightweight, with snug sleeves that block out the windchill. Plus, it’s made with a seamless construction, so you get all the coziness of wool with none of the scratchiness. Nike Dry Element Half-Zip Nike Men’s Dry Element 1/2-Zip Nike amazon.com SHOP NOW Lightweight Comfortable Has thumbholes Sizing is off for some The best thing about half-zip shirts like this comfortable, fitted one is that you can calibrate your warmth level with the zipper and sleeve height. Just roll up the sleeves and yank the zipper all the way down to vent heat; or cozy up in a fully zipped mock neck, and use the thumbholes as makeshift gloves. The shirt is perfect for those runs that start out brisk and end up balmy, or for in-between days with an unpredictable forecast. The fabric is lightweight and wicking, but holds warmth well in the winter.  Athleta Speedlight Top Athleta Speedlight Top athleta.gap.com $51.99 SHOP NOW Soft and flattering Cozy thumbholes This is the first long-sleeve running shirt in our tester’s post-laundry lineup because of its soft, comfy, and flattering fit. It’s UPF 50+, so it works as a sun-protective outer layer on 40- or 50-degree days, or under a jacket when the temperature dips below freezing. It almost always feels dry—even when it has no right to, thanks to a lightweight nylon-spandex blend that wicks away my copious sweat. And it’s one of the few running shirts she owns with long-enough sleeves to cover her wrists, complete with thumbholes that let you hide your hands inside when it’s only slightly too warm for gloves. Smartwool Men’s Merino 150 Baselayer Smartwool Merino 150 Crew Base Layer rei.com $62.93 SHOP NOW Cozy enough to wear on non-running days Covered seams to prevent chafing or skin irritation All that Merino warmth comes at a cost Smartwool is the GOAT when it comes to cozy wool softness that feels like sliding into clean, high-thread-count sheets. This merino base layer is ideal for those Arctic winter days—or top layer for crisp fall mornings. With covered seams for added smoothness, it’s so comfortable and flattering that you’ll want to wear it even when you’re not running. Columbia Midweight Baselayer Columbia Midweight Baselayer amazon.com $55.00 SHOP NOW Reflective thermal warmth Snug fit This versatile shirt has a thermal-reflective silver lining to reflect and retain your body heat, much the way those post-marathon foil blankets do. It manages to find a balance between feeling warm but also remaining breathable and lightweight, fitted but also loose and comfortable. Wear it solo in the fall, and as a base layer in the winter. If you need something warmer for 20-degree days, try the brand’s heavyweight version. Patagonia Capilene Cool Lightweight Long-Sleeve Shirt Patagonia Capilene Cool Lightweight Long-Sleeve backcountry.com $55.00 SHOP NOW Breathable Versatile Made of recycle materials Getting out the door in uncertain weather is a little faster with this shirt—the versatile “Capilene Cool” fabric will self-correct for some of your layering errors. On its own, the shirt is lightweight and breathable, but with the toastiness and coverage of full sleeves. Worn under a jacket in colder conditions, it’s the ideal, sweat-wicking underlayer to keep you from overheating when you’re moving fast. True to Patagonia’s mission, the shirt is made of recycled materials so you can feel good about both your run and your gear. Asics Men’s Thermopolis 1/2 Zip Jacket Asics Thermopolis Half-Zip Running Clothes amazon.com $70.00 $60.78 (13% off) SHOP NOW Zip it up for extra neck coverage Long sleeves with thumbholes This stretchy polyester half-zip works as a base layer (under 25 degrees) or top layer (over 25) for bitterly cold days when you need some extra neck coverage. It’s got a zippered chest pocket for your cash and keys, and bonus thumbholes in the long, cozy sleeves.  32 Degrees Heat Performance Mesh Baselayer Tee 32 Degrees Heat Performance Mesh Baselayer Tee amazon.com $18.90 $15.85 (16% off) SHOP NOW Very inexpensive Lightweight Not as durable as most We wear this snug tee on just-below-freezing days with another long-sleeve tech shirt, and the combination keeps us warm for miles. It fits snugly without clinging or feeling uncomfortable, and it does a great job of retaining body heat.  Adidas Own the Run Long Sleeve Tee Adidas Own the Run Long Sleeve Tee amazon.com SHOP NOW Lightweight Reflective Good value Worn on its own, this lightweight, slightly loose-fitting layer doesn’t provide much winter warmth, despite its long sleeves and thumbholes. But worn under a jacket, it’s the perfect quick-drying intermediary—capable of holding tight to your core heat, but releasing all your sweat and moisture. As the days grow shorter, you’ll also appreciate that the shirt has 360-degree reflectivity for early morning or night running. Craft Sportswear Active Intensity Base Layer Craft Sportswear Active Intensity Base Layer amazon.com SHOP NOW Snug, stretchy fit adds warmth without bulk Insulated in the places you need it most A little pricey This stretchy polyester top has been “body-mapped” to provide better insulation, movement, and ventilation where your core has been researched to need it most. It’s got a tight, stretchy fit that clings to your upper body and fits easily under another shirt or jacket.  UA ColdGear Armour Compression Mock Under Armour ColdGear Armour Compression Mock $39.98 and up (depending on color) amazon.com SHOP NOW Warm fabric Snug fit Logo is prone to peeling off Under Armour’s ColdGear uses a dual-layer fabric designed to insulate and recirculate body heat while wicking moisture away from your skin. The goal is to keep you warm and dry without feeling bulky—and nowhere is its success more evident than in this cozy compression base layer. A stretchy second-skin feel and flatlock seam construction provide a smooth-feeling and comfortable fit, worn alone or under a jacket. The mock neck is far too short to offer much warmth above the shoulders, but it does keep some cold air from creeping in. Oiselle Flyout Long Sleeve Oiselle Flyout Long Sleeve oiselle.com $72.00 SHOP NOW Watch window Lightweight knit fabric that feels soft against skin Flattering fit We love the perennially sold-out wool version of the Flyout. This polyester-blend iteration is the next best thing, bringing the same cozy, flattering fit and wicking powers to a lighter-weight long-sleeve. But our favorite feature is the “watch window,” a thoughtful gap in the fabric that allows you to check your pace and time without rolling up your sleeves. Arc’teryx Tolu Long-Sleeve Arc’teryx Tolu Long-Sleeve rei.com $69.00 SHOP NOW Light Doesn't chafe Cozy fabric The soft, stretchy jersey material is the big draw here. Made of a nylon-polyester-elastane blend, the cozy, relaxed-fit long-sleeve is lightweight and breathable enough to wear on 50+-degree days but toasty enough for running in sub-40-degree temps. Trail runners and cyclists tend to love this one for that versatility—and even when you don’t need a long-sleeve layer for warmth, it provides good coverage from the sun. REI Co-op Midweight Base Layer REI Co-op Midweight Base Layer rei.com $49.95 SHOP NOW Versatile Good price Some find the fit too snug This snug, stretchy long-sleeve does it all—wear it as a top layer for running on crisp fall mornings, under a jacket for January backup, or as a cozy pajama shirt year-round. It was designed to be worn as a skiing or hiking shirt, but the four-way polyester spandex blend and extra-long sleeves make it ideal for running use as well. Lightweight, versatile, and quick-drying, it packs and washes easily for travel. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io