Title: Overpronation vs Underpronation

Text: If you’ve ever been to a running store searching for next pair of shoes, you know how overwhelming it can be to stare at a wall full of shoes that somehow manage to look both identical and completely different all at the same time. So it makes sense that running shoe brands use the foot's levels of pronation, or the natural movement of the foot that occurs when walking or running, to categorize shoes and help you narrow it down. The thinking goes like this: If you have normal pronation, your foot rolls inward about 15 percent and optimally distributes the forces of impact, so you'd choose from a variety of shoes including a neutral trainer. If you overpronate, your foot rolls inward more than then “ideal” 15 percent (common in people with flatter feet), so you’d choose a stability shoe to help evenly distribute the impact. And if you underpronate (also known as a supinator or supination), your foot rolls inward less than 15 percent (common in people with high arches), and you’d choose a shoe with extra cushioning or features to control the motion to absorb the impact. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Problem is, this thinking isn’t exactly supported by science. Foot pronation was a hot topic in the podiatry world decades ago (we’re talking as far back as the 1940s), so it became a big consideration when companies first started making running shoes with injury prevention in mind—even though there wasn’t much to back up the approach. “It was assumed, without any epidemiological evidence, that foot pronation was one of the variables responsible for the development of running injuries,” says a British Journal of Sports Medicine review. Fast-forward to today, and we’re learning that overpronation isn’t always a bad thing, and there are other aspects to consider in a running shoe, explains Carson Caprara, director of global footwear product line management at Brooks. Consider a 2013 British Journal of Sports Medicine study of almost 1,000 beginner runners who wore neutral shoes: Turns out, pronation had no link with an increased risk of injury—if anything, pronators were slightly less likely to experience an injury over the course of the year-long study. Our Favorite Stability Shoes Right Now “Pronation has always had such a negative connotation, but it’s an important part of the run and not as ‘black and white’ as you might think,” says Paul Lang, merchandising manager at ASICS. “While we need to make sure that there’s guidance for the foot, it’s definitely not as rigid of a focus as it once was.” The new focus? “Now, the trend of broader midsoles is allowing the foot to act more naturally,” says Colin Ingram, director of product at Hoka One One and formally with New Balance. “The minimalist movement—though polarizing—made the conversation around shoes much more diverse. People swear by the precise drop, the specific weight of the foam, and the level of flexibility.” That’s one of the reasons many shoes now primarily categorize their shoes by feel, ie. do you prefer something firm, soft, springy, or flexible? “We let the consumer pick the experience they want first, then offer support from there,” Carson says. And while some brands do still categorize their shoes according to levels of pronation, it’s not always just about that. We know this might make shoe shopping sound more stressful, but buying a pair of running shoes is actually pretty hard to screw up. That same British Journal of Sports Medicine review concluded that personal comfort is one of the biggest predictors of injury prevention. Meaning: Choose the shoe that feels the most comfortable when you run (not just standing still). What feels good is one of the best ways to stay healthy and keep running. Kiera Carter Kiera Carter has a decade's worth of experience covering fitness, health, and lifestyle topics for national magazines and websites. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io