Title: Amazon’s Slashing the Price of Some Garmin Smartwatches

Text: Fenix 5X Sapphire Watch Garmin amazon.com $360.97 SHOP NOW As the world gets back to some semblance of normalcy, we’re feeling more confident about our racing schedules. So, why not embrace your competitive edge with a new running watch? If you need any convincing, Amazon is slashing the price of a bunch of Garmin smartwatches. While there are plenty of options to choose from—such as kid-friendly models and options that will transition nicely from your coworking space to the open road—we have our eyes on Garmin’s Fenix 5X watch. There’s a reason why this smartwatch has over 7,400 positive reviews on Amazon, a 4.6/5 rating, and an “Amazon’s Choice” badge. Decked out with a rugged exterior that’s shock and water-resistant, this watch is well-suited for any type of run. Not only does it feature Garmin’s signature GPS system, but it also has Glonass capability to track your whereabouts in more challenging environments. And, thanks to its preloaded running profiles, this smartwatch is able to tell the difference between trails, tracks, and treadmills. (That way, you can track your progress as you mix up your training.) Want to give the running a rest? The Fenix 5X also has a colorful topographic map, cycling routes, and outdoor navigation features. Whether you want to go running, cycling, or hiking, this watch has you covered. Normally, costs $364; however, Amazon’s shaving $66 off the asking price. In fact, according to a price tracking platform called CamelCamelCamel, this is the cheapest this watch has ever been. So, if you’re not going to snag a great deal on a Garmin watch now, when? Shop More Watch Sales on Amazon Charge 4 Fitness and Activity Tracker Fitbit amazon.com $149.95 $98.95 (34% off) SHOP NOW Vivomove HR Hybrid Smartwatch Garmin amazon.com $189.95 SHOP NOW Fitbit Versa 3 Health & Fitness Smartwatch Fitbit amazon.com $229.95 $179.95 (22% off) SHOP NOW Garmin vivomove HR, Hybrid Smartwatch for Men and Women, Silver with Tan Italian Leather Garmin amazon.com $204.00 SHOP NOW Shop more Amazon sales with slickdeals.  📹 See our hands-on review Kelsey Mulvey Kelsey Mulvey is a freelance lifestyle journalist, who covers shopping and deals for Marie Claire, Women's Health, and Men's Health, among others. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io