Title: Therabody Products Are Up to $150 Off on Cyber Monday

Text: According to Dr. Rachel Tavel, P.T., D.P.T., C.S.C.S., massage guns help stimulate muscle activation and potentially improve power when used prerun. Postrun, these tools reduce delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). “If a runner is pressed for time,” she says, “these devices can potentially ward off muscle soreness while also improving muscle function.” Considering the wear and tear we subject our bodies to as runners—plus holiday stressors and coronavirus worries—a massage device, like a Theragun, can be valuable in alleviating our tense muscles. Therabody’s Cyber Monday deals are live now, with up to $150 off the original prices. Buy one for your favorite runner—or reward yourself. Pro Theragun Theragun Pro Therabody theragun.com $599.00 SHOP NOW The Pro is everything you need in a massage device: an adjustable arm for hard-to-reach knots, six changeable attachments, and five speeds (from 1,750 to 2,400 percussions per minute). Weight: 2.9 lb. Battery Life: 75 minutes each on 2 rechargeable lithium-ion batteries; 75-minute charge time Features: 5 speeds (app-controlled customizable speed range), adjustable arm, 6 attachments Originally $599 Elite Theragun Theragun Elite $299.00 theragun.com SHOP NOW According to Therabody, the Elite runs quieter than a standard electric toothbrush. It has the same intensity as the Pro, with five speeds topping off at 2,400 percussions per minute. Weight: 2.2 lb. Battery Life: 120 minutes; 80-minute charge time Features: 5 speeds (app-controlled customizable speed range), 5 attachments Originally $399 Prime Theragun Theragun Prime Therabody theragun.com $224.00 SHOP NOW The more affordable Prime has the same speeds as the Pro and Elite, four attachments (including the area-targeted cone), and two-hour battery life—in case your body needs a half marathon time’s worth of TLC. Weight: 2.2 lb. Battery Life: 120 minutes; 80-minute charge time Features: 5 speeds (app-controlled customizable speed range), 4 attachments Originally $299 Mini  Theragun Theragun Mini $174.00 Theragun SHOP NOW The lightweight and portable mini is ideal for runners who are on-the-go. Weight: 1.43 lb. Battery Life: 150 minutes; 80-minute charge time Features: 3 speeds, compact and portable  Originally $199 Wave Roller Theragun Wave Roller Therabody theragun.com $224.00 SHOP NOW Therabody’s newest product, the Wave Roller, is patterned with wave-shaped grooves and has an outer layer of high-density PU foam. Like the Pro, Elite, and Prime, you can control its intensity with the Therabody app on your phone. Weight: 3.3 lb. Battery Life: 180 minutes Features: 5 intensity settings (app-controlled customization), 12 inches long  Originally $149 Amanda Furrer Test Editor Amanda is a test editor at Runner’s World and was a middle-of-the-pack Emerson College cross country runner; she’s run the Boston Marathon consecutively since 2013. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io