Title: Best Hydration Packs 2021

Text: When you’re heading out on a long run, a hydration pack is essential to carry not only all the water you’ll need but also the fuel and gear required for the conditions you’ll encounter. Today’s packs are far different from the traditional hiking kind, with smaller, lighter constructions that won’t bounce, remaining comfortable for miles. Take a look below at quick info on five of the top performers from our test, then read further for helpful buying advice and deeper reviews of these and other packs. Editors’ Choice Salomon Adv Skin 8 Set W amazon.com $249.86 Buy Now Editors’ Choice Black Diamond Distance 15 amazon.com Buy Now Ample Capacity Nathan VaporHowe amazon.com $156.29 Best at Staying Put USWE Pace Pro backcountry.com $79.99 Buy Now For Long Weekends Ultimate Direction Fastpack 25 amazon.com $164.95 Buy Now Choosing the Right Type Hydration packs generally come in two flavors. The first is a minimal vest that can carry water and not much more, designed to be as light as possible. If you’re looking for a race-ready pack that’s nimble, or just need to carry fuel for short trail outings, this is the pack you’ll want to consider first. The second is for more adventurous outings; think high-mileage trail runs or ultramarathons that require you to bring along certain supplies (though we advise against running an ultra or a race—if you could even find one—in these days of social distancing). But when the timing is right again, you’ll need a larger pack with greater carrying capacity. These adventure packs typically have a sleeve for a hydration bladder, but also extra pockets to let you haul jackets, additional layers of clothing, trekking poles, and more.  In both cases, the packs will have pockets on the shoulder straps for gels, a phone, and other small items. And some have larger pockets capable of holding water bottles and soft flasks up front for easy access without the mess—and bounce—of a bladder. Trevor Raab Comfort  Current packs have a sport-specific (and even gender-specific) construction to boost comfort. Adjustable straps help you tweak the fit so the pack hugs your torso and won’t move or bounce as you dash down the trail, while vented panels and lightweight fabrics stretch and allow sweat to evaporate instead of build up. Women should look at one of the new women-specific packs offered, which have bags and straps that better fit the female torso, as well as adjustable closures and strategically positioned pockets for all-day comfort. Bladder or Bottles? It’s important to keep in mind how you prefer to carry your water, and match your pack to suit. Some of the options below can be used with a hydration bladder in the main compartment, so you can carry a couple of liters of water and sip through a bite valve and hose cinched down on the shoulder strap. Others have storage space for water bottles in pockets on the straps. These are typically easier to fill trail side and quicker if you’re looking to save time at an aid station. Some packs can accommodate both. But consider that some might not come with either and will require you to buy them separately. Trevor Raab How We Tested Every pack here has been thoroughly evaluated and out through the paces by our team of editors and local test staff. We research the market, survey user reviews, speak with product managers, and draw from our own experience wearing and running with these backpacks to determine the best options. We called in testing samples and ran with them on trails near the Runner’s World office in eastern Pennsylvania. Only the models with the best value, technical features, comfort, looks, and ability to haul all your stuff without bouncing made the cut. Race Vests Salomon ADV Skin 8 Set W ADV Skin Set 8L Hydration Pack Salomon amazon.com $249.86 Buy Now Women-specific fit Flasks have long straws Routing the bladder hose can be tricky The Salomon ADV Skin 8 is the hydration holy grail for women's narrower chests and shoulders. The lightweight pack’s curved front and tapered 500ml soft flasks prevent it from pressing uncomfortably against your breasts, while the longer straws make it easy to drink on the run. Testers loved that it can hold an additional bladder, your phone, and tons of gear, thanks to the many additional pouches and zipper pockets, without the vest feeling ungainly, uneven, or restrictive. UWSE Pace Pro Pace Pro Vest USWE backcountry.com $79.99 Buy Now Zero excess movement Stretchy material fits lots of gear and fuel Great price, even after purchasing flasks or bladder separately Very tight fit makes it difficult to get bottles in and out of pockets Sizing is very small If you want a race vest that absolutely does not bounce, the Pace Pro is it. The Swedish brand new to North America pulls from its background in high-impact sports like motocross to make packs with a unique fit system, which not only reduces but completely eliminates bouncing and excess movement while you’re running.  We were skeptical of the single sternum strap’s ability to secure the pack, however it worked perfectly, combining with the contoured shape of the vest to sort of pull all the corners around our body to a central point. The front is also set up with compartments like you might find on any other race vest: two bottle pouches, two pockets for fuel and phones (whatever you may need to access quickly), and two zippered side pouches for even more storage. While the pack literally did not move due to its compressive wrap around our torso, it also had a break-in period where it was quite difficult to get bottles and gels in and out of the pouches. The Pace Pro doesn’t come with any bladder or soft flasks, but even after purchasing those separately, the price still comes in at less than many other race vests.  Around back, there’s a main rear compartment that fits extra layers or a bladder up to 1.5 liters if you prefer. A lower pass-through pocket is great for stashing a jacket you may need to pull out quickly, and it’s quite easy to reach on the run.  The fit and material of this vest is very secure and durable, and it should last a long time. Our biggest complaint is, while the size chart is accurate (the measurements and fit match up perfectly), the Pace Pro just doesn’t have an option for larger runners right now. USWE has said it intends to address that in the next update later in 2021. Nathan VaporHowe VaporHowe Hydration Vest 12L (Women’s) Nathan amazon.com $134.95 Insulated bladder Lots of pockets Pricey The women’s VaporHowe and men’s VaporKrar vests are great for longer runs and racing, where you might need extra layers and gear. They have pockets all over for quick access to essentials—even pockets inside other pockets, so we’re still finding new places to store our stuff. The front of the vest has weather-resistant chest pockets to fit smartphones (and yeah, they’re actually big enough). The vests come with an insulated 1.6-liter bladder and feature soft-flask compatible front pockets. Buy VaporKrar CamelBak Ultra Pro W CamelBak Ultra Pro W 6L Hydration Vest $120.00 amazon.com Buy Now Women-specific fit Lots of stretchy pockets Flasks can leak under bottle caps The CamelBak Ultra Pro W gives women a tailor-fit version of the popular . A six-liter capacity means this vest can carry enough for long races and big trail days while keeping a slim profile. Stretch pockets on the front, side, and rear hold all of your fuel and gear, and they’re easily reachable mid-run. For runners who use trekking poles, two bungee cords act as a minimalist quiver system to attach the poles to the back. You can also untie the bungee cords and switch them to sling poles over your preferred shoulder. CamelBak Nano Nano Vest 1.5L CamelBak amazon.com $99.99 Buy Now Breathable mesh Soft flasks included Carries little more than water The Nano lives up to its name with a truly minimalist design. Breathable mesh with large holes helps keep you cooler and makes the vest barely noticeable as you’re wearing it. The Nano can carry two soft flasks on the front, and it has dedicated key and phone pockets. Side pockets allow storage for food and other gear, and the back essentially acts as a quiver for trekking poles, with a small pocket and two loops on the shoulder straps. Black Diamond Distance 4 Black Diamond Distance 4 Hydration Vest $149.95 backcountry.com Buy Now Breathable Lightweight Trekking pole system doesn’t work for all poles Black Diamond went all in on trail running in 2020, adapting features from the Distance 15 pack (below) into a running vest for racing. Thin breathable mesh all over allowed heat to escape better than with most vests and stretched a ton to hold jackets, food, and water. A zippered rear pocket provided some weather resistance to protect gear. Two removable straps form a lightweight, stow-able system for carrying trekking poles across our back, though some models—like Leki’s—were too narrow and slipped out. UltrAspire Basham Basham 2L Race Hydration Vest UltrAspire rei.com $89.95 Buy Now Comfortable fit, breathes well Great price with bottle Storage fits a lot Can be tough to put a bottle in the rear pouch with the pack on Front pocket openings are narrow Designed with input from pro ultrarunner Amanda Basham, this pack is designed to carry enough water and fuel for races while keeping a small profile and breathing well during hot events like Western States. While it doesn’t look like much, the stretchiness of all the pockets on this pack make it very capable It’s really easy to stuff loads of gels into the front pouches, and the right chest pocket can fit most smartphones, which, while they will stick out the top, are secured by a bungee cord over top. The sternum straps have a lot of stretch to provide a secure, but non-restrictive, fit. The rear of the pack features an insulated pouch for an included UltraFlask bottle that’s softer than hard bottles for comfort but firm enough that you don’t have to fight to get it in. On top of that pouch is a very stretchy pocket for jackets or headlamps, plus a main compartment with a magnetic enclosure to keep extra layers or a second bottle. Osprey Duro Duro 1.5L Hydration Vest Osprey amazon.com $89.95 Buy Now Bladder comes included Breathable fabrics Very little storage The budget-friendly Duro (men’s) and Dyna (women’s) don’t skimp on features. They’re well-designed to be lightweight and breathable. You can stash soft flasks in the two front pockets, with another two easy-access lower pockets for your fuel. Front and rear zippered compartments hold all your other small necessities. Testers did note, however, that the sternum straps were a bit too short. Salomon S/Lab Sense Ultra 8 S/Lab Sense Ultra 8L Hydration Vest Salomon backcountry.com $179.95 Buy Now Lightweight Expandable to carry a lot of gear Expensive Somewhat fragile material While Salomon’s S/Lab hydration vests haven’t seen a major update since 2017, this is still the one we reach for the most. At just over six ounces, it’s the lightest pack available for its capacity. With a bellowed expandable rear pouch and pockets on pockets all over, it easily held all the gear we needed for a big race. The lightweight build also gave the vest a very comfortable fit, with ultra-soft materials throughout. The two soft flasks feature a unique harder, cone-shaped bottom that helped them easily slide into the pockets while we were running. Over time, the materials did relax a bit, adding some bounce on the run, and the thin build wasn’t the most durable–we’ve broken out the sewing kit a few times to patch up pockets–but for a comfortable minimalist pack, the Sense Ultra 8 is hard to beat. Ultimate Direction Ultra Vest 5.0 Ultra Vest 5.0 Ultimate Direction amazon.com $139.95 Buy Now Good for longer, remote races Lightweight Built-in pole quiver “This vest is lightweight with lots of features,” our tester said. “By features, I mostly mean pockets.” And he gave Ultimate Direction kudos for putting them in all the best places, with plenty of room in the front for easy accessibility to fuel and other small things. Plus, the Ultra Vest has a large back compartment, with some external zipper pockets and a bungee system to keep everything cinched down and snug or loose if you need more room. But his favorite feature was the built-in quiver for poles. “I also like the new adjustable fitting,” he adds. “With the ability to adjust around your upper torso and, as seems to be becoming more common, the ability to adjust from the sides of the pack, you can dial in the exact fit for your upper and lower torso.” Adventure Vests and Packs Black Diamond Distance 15 Distance 15L Pack Black Diamond amazon.com Buy Now Lightweight durable body Versatile for running or commuting No bottles included Fastpacking is the multi-day hybrid of hiking and running, so it makes sense such an activity-specific pack would come from climbing brand Black Diamond. Its designers teamed up with mountain ultrarunner Joe Grant to create the Distance 15, which has enough space to hold shoes and clothes, a down jacket, trekking poles, and—for the extra adventurous—ice axes. Cinch cables on the side of the pack as well as the fitted vest-style straps secured heavy loads for minimal bounce. It’s a tight fit, but the pack also held our 15-inch laptop, so if you find yourself in urban environments, the Distance is a solid option for run commutes. Ultimate Direction Fastpack 25 Fastpack 25 Ultimate Direction amazon.com $164.95 Buy Now Plenty of storage Comfortable vest-style shoulder straps Enough adjustability to fit clothing in any season Extra motion when not fully loaded Bottles sit high on chest At a certain point, multi-day adventure running starts to blur the lines with backpacking, and with self-supported efforts becoming increasingly popular, Ultimate Direction created the Fastpack series to help you carry everything you need while staying light and well…fast. The 25-liter capacity falls on the minimal side of the backpacking spectrum but is plenty of space for swift weekend adventures or day hikes. There’s enough room in the main compartment to fit a hydration bladder, a light sleeping bag, extra clothes and food, and even a packable sleeping pad. There’s also a large mesh pocket on the rear for extra layers you may need to access quickly and, for the most adventurous, two loops for ice axes. Z-shaped cinch straps help reduce any excess swinging, though the pack does seem to stay put best when fully loaded. On the front, it feels more like one of UD’s standard running vests, with pockets for bottles and food like you’d normally run with. If you’re looking to go longer than a couple of days, the Fastpack also comes in a .