Title: NFL Receiver DK Metcalf Wants to Qualify for the Olympic Trials in the 100 Meters

Text: NFL players have often teased the idea of hitting the track to race against the best sprinters in the world. Now we will actually get the chance to see how an NFL player compares to track athletes over 100 meters. Seattle Seahawks wide receiver DK Metcalf announced on May 3 that he will race in the 100 meters at the USATF Golden Games and Distance Open at Mt. SAC on Sunday, May 9 (the complete start list is here). And he isn’t just competing for fun; he also wants to qualify for the U.S. Olympic Track and Field Trials in June. This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Qualifying for the Trials in the 100 meters is no joke. To automatically qualify, Metcalf will have to run under 10.05 seconds—something only 15 American men have done in the country so far during the current qualifying period. Metcalf could also qualify as one of the fastest runners behind those with qualifying times, to fill out the field of 32. We know Metcalf has wheels on the gridiron. At the 2019 NFL Scouting Combine, he ran a 4.33 in the 40-yard dash (the fastest 40 time clocked at the combine is 4.22, by receiver John Ross). Metcalf’s speed earned viral status last season when he chased down Arizona Cardinals defensive back Budda Baker to prevent a pick-six; he was clocked at 22.64 mph while wearing full football pads. And according to Jeff Eisenberg of Yahoo Sports, Metcalf’s agent reached out to USATF’s Adam Schmenk just a few days after that run. “DK’s agent told us that he really wants to try to make the Olympics and asked what steps he needs to take,” Schmenk told Yahoo Sports. “We walked him through what the auto qualifying time was that he would have to run in a sanctioned USATF event and told him that we would help him find a lane if and when he wanted to do this.” This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Metcalf isn’t a stranger to the track. He specialized in the hurdles at Oxford (Mississippi) High School and ran on the 4x100 meter relay, but he focused solely on football in college at the University of Mississippi. So, we’re left wondering: Can he get out of the blocks fast enough to keep up with competitors such as Ronnie Baker, the second fastest American this year (9.94 seconds), and 2016 Rio Olympian Mike Rodgers—both of whom will line up next to him this weekend? However, Metcalf going for the Trials isn’t an outlandish thought. For years, we’ve heard about how Chiefs wide receiver Tyreek Hill wants to run in the Olympics. We saw a 40-yard dash contest between players for $1 million, which was won by wide receiver and former Olympic long jumper Marquise Goodwin. Jeff Demps, who ran on the 4x100 meter relay at the 2012 Olympics, played running back for the Florida Gators and was signed to a few NFL teams. (And of course, you can’t forget about Giants quarterback Daniel Jones’s run-and-trip). No matter what happens, Metcalf’s 100-meter dash attempt is must-see television this weekend. And if you’re a football fan tuning into a track race for the first time, we highly recommend you stick around for a few other races on tap. In the men’s 200 meters, Noah Lyles will face off against 17-year-old pro Erriyon Knighton. In the women’s 400 meters, four-time Olympian Allyson Felix will take on an old rival in Bahamian Shaunae Miller-Uibo. In the women’s 100 meters, sixth-fastest 100-meter runner in the world Sha’Carri Richardson will be showing why she is a favorite to win in Tokyo in July. In the men’s 800 meters, we recommend watching Donavan Brazier, Clayton Murphy, and Bryce Hoppel face off. In the men’s steeplechase, Olympian Evan Jager will return from injury and compete in his first steeplechase race since 2018. You can catch all of the action on May 9 starting at 4:30 p.m. ET on NBC, NBCSports.com/live, and the NBC Sports app. Andrew Dawson Gear & News Editor Drew covers a variety of subjects for Runner’s World and Bicycling, and he specializes in writing and editing human interest pieces while also covering health, wellness, gear, and fitness for the brand. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io