Title: Hoka One One Is Slashing the Price of Its Popular Clifton 7 Shoes

Text: Whether you’re running for leisure or gearing up a for a big race, it’s safe to say there is not better way to welcome the warm weather than with a new pair of running shoes. Lakota Gambill CLIFTON 7- WOMEN'S HOKA hokaoneone.com $130.00 SHOP NOW If you’re looking for a deal on a great pair of shoes, Hoka is slashing the price of its . There’s a reason why this award-winning model is loved by both avid runners and those newer to the sport but are looking for a plush ride. Lighter than its predecessor, the Clifton 6, this pair features a full-compression EVA foam that’s equal parts comfortable and responsive. (That way, you’ll get the soft support you need on longer runs, but you have enough spring to continue your stride.) CLIFTON 7- MEN'S HOKA hokaoneone.com $130.00 There’s also a snug, cushioned heel collar that keeps blisters at bay. And, thanks to its Meta-Rocker construction and beveled heel, this pair delivers on a smooth glide.  Normally, the will cost you $130; however, the brand is currently dropping its price to $104. It’s rare to find these shoes discounted—much less at 20 percent off—making this deal one you won’t want to miss. One caveat: The brand is reportedly launching a brand-new version of the Clifton sneakers in June. So, if you want the latest, coolest running shoes to grace your feet, Hoka promises it’s worth the wait. But, if you just want a really good deal on a great pair of sneakers? Now's a better time than any to add to your cart. The RW Takeaway: The Clifton 7 is relatively light for a plush shoe, making it an ideal choice for runners who want a cushioned midsole and responsive ride.  Kelsey Mulvey Kelsey Mulvey is a freelance lifestyle journalist, who covers shopping and deals for Marie Claire, Women's Health, and Men's Health, among others. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io