Title: Leggings With Pockets 2021

Text: It’s easy to head outside for a run in the warmth of the spring and summer sunshine or the crisp, energizing air of fall. But when winter’s cold temperatures, biting winds, snow, and rain greet you at the door, you might find your motivation waning. And your standard shorts or capris won’t fight off the chill, leaving your muscles cold and you miserable—or hitting the treadmill. You can find tights to match nearly any conditions: fleece-lined versions are best for bitter cold, while others feature mesh in places that are likely to overheat, such as behind the knee. Most tights will offer some degree of compression as well for performance and recovery benefit. You’ll also find leggings with graphics, bright colors, and reflective touches to keep you safer in low-light conditions, as those reflective bits amplify light from streetlights and headlights. How We Selected To be considered, every pair of tights on this list needed to provide ample storage space on the run—at least two pockets, or an equivalent holding capacity. In addition, each pair here has been thoroughly evaluated and vetted by our team of test editors. After researching the market, surveying user reviews, speaking with product managers, and using our own running experience, we determined that these 8 tights will not only get you through the season, but also stash your stuff securely. Most models have been tested by our staff, and those that haven’t have been carefully chosen based on their value, technical fabrics, comfort, looks, and ability to hold items without excess bounce. Oiselle Women’s Lux Go Anywhere 3/4 Tights Lakota Gambill Oiselle Lux Go Anywhere 3/4 Tights oiselle.com $44.00 SHOP NOW These lush leggings have deep side pockets to tuck in your phone or a long rope of energy gummies. Compressive and with a flattering seam design, the Lux is made of a buttery soft polyester and spandex blend. An interior drawcord adjusts the flat waistband for a non-slip fit. Tracksmith Allston Tight Tracksmith Allston Tights tracksmith.com $118.00 SHOP NOW Front, back, side to side—those are the four places you’ll find pockets on this pair from that well-known hare. These tights sit higher on the waist than the brand’s previous models, and also feature a longer inseam and wider waistband. Take note that a remixed material of nylon and elastane gives these tights a slightly more compressive feel.  Buy Men’s Buy Women’s Janji 7/8 Groundwork Tight Janji Janji 7/8 Groundwork Tight rei.com $88.00 SHOP NOW The Groundwork Tight, which we awarded Gear of the Year last year, has an interior front slit pocket on the waistband, two side pockets, and an envelope back waistband pocket for your phone. Needless to say, you won’t have to leave anything at home before heading out. The zipper-less pockets, flat waistband, and laser-cut leg openings allow you to do postrun cross-training floor exercises without any poky seams or metal. Buy Men’s Rabbit Women’s High and Mighty Tights Rabbit Rabbit High and Mighty Tights rabbit rei.com $66.93 $44.83 (33% off) SHOP NOW These high-rise 7/8 leggings are as downy soft as Oiselle’s Lux Anywhere (see above). The wide, flat waistband functions like a racebelt, with two front pockets to slip in keys and cards, and a roomy back center pocket for your smartphone. Mesh behind the knees makes these tights suitable for both temperate conditions and wintry workouts . Brooks Women’s Method 7/8 Tight Brooks Brooks Method 7/8 Tight brooksrunning.com $88.00 SHOP NOW The Method’s perforated waistband (read: no heat rash from excessive waist sweat) has a back envelope pocket that’s large enough to store a smartphone, and an adjustable infinity cord for a snug fit. Two side pockets provide more room for the essentials. Your fear of being locked out of your apartment can be put to rest thanks to an interior key loop in the left pocket. Letsfit Women’s High Waisted Leggings Lakota Gambill Letsfit High Waisted Leggings for Women $21.00 amazon.com SHOP NOW The Letsfit Leggings have a high waist to support your tummy, with a silhouette that contours around your curves and gives your derriere a little extra oomph. “Overall, this is a great running tight for the price,” said a tester. “It’s fairly warm, super soft, and doesn’t sag during a run with an iPhone in one of the pockets.” The bottoms have a total of three pockets: one on each side and a small back pocket in the waistband. Old Navy Women’s High-Waisted Powersoft 7/8 Leggings Old Navy High-Waisted Powersoft 7/8 Leggings oldnavy.gap.com $30.00 SHOP NOW At an inexpensive price, these Old Navy leggings offer two side pockets to carry a small load, as well as several patterns and colors to choose from. The leggings come in three inseams—23-, 25-, and 29-inch—so tall runners won’t feel like they’re wearing cropped pants and short runners won’t have bunched material around their ankles. Baleaf Women’s Fleece Lined Winter Leggings Baleaf Baleaf Women's Fleece Lined Winter Leggings amazon.com SHOP NOW This other bargain buy is a #1 best seller on Amazon, with a 4.5-star rating out of 12,800 reviews. The leggings are made of soft fleece fabric and come in a variety of colors and patterns, including twilight purple and leopard print. Pockets are also aplenty, with one on each side below the hip, and one on the front of the waistband. Sizes range from extra small to 3XL. Amanda Furrer Test Editor Amanda is a test editor at Runner’s World and was a middle-of-the-pack Emerson College cross country runner; she’s run the Boston Marathon consecutively since 2013. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io