Title: Peloton’s Tread and Tread+ Have Been Recalled—Here’s What You Need to Know

Text: The Peloton Tread+ treadmill is being recalled due to one death and over 70 reports of adults, children, pets, and/or other objects being pulled underneath the rear of the treadmill. The Peloton Tread treadmill is also being voluntarily recalled because the touchscreen console can detach and fall, posing an injury risk. If you own a Tread+, Peloton strongly advises you to stop using it immediately. You can contact Peloton for a full refund. Editor’s note: Runner’s World reached out to Peloton for more information, but a spokesperson declined to comment beyond the joint formal statement from the company and the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), which you can find here. Peloton has also released a FAQ page that is being updated in real-time. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and Peloton announced a recall of the Peloton Tread+ treadmill today. This comes after the death of one child and over 70 reports of adults, children, pets, and/or other objects being pulled underneath the rear of the treadmill. Both Peloton and the CPSC also voluntarily recalled the Peloton Tread because the touchscreen console can detach and fall, posing a risk of injury to consumers. According to the CSPC report, there have been 18 reports of the touchscreen coming loose and six reports of the touchscreen detaching and falling. “No injuries have been reported in the U.S. There have been reports of minor injuries such as abrasions, minor cuts, and bruises in Canada and the United Kingdom,” the report states. If you own one of these treadmills, you probably have a few questions. Here’s what we know so far. → Join Runner’s World+ to stay on top of the latest running news! Why Are Peloton Tread+ Treadmills Causing These Injuries? A CPSC spokesperson told Consumer Reports that the Tread+’s “height off the ground and its belt mechanism may make the treadmill particularly dangerous.” What Should You Do If You Have a Peloton Tread+ or Tread? If you have a Tread+, you have a few options. The CPSC advises the following: A refund: “Consumers should immediately stop using the recalled Tread+ and contact Peloton for a full refund until November 6, 2022. Consumers who return the Tread+ treadmill after that date will receive a partial refund. A relocation of the machine: “Peloton is offering consumers who do not want a refund the option of moving the Tread+ free of charge to a room where children or pets cannot access the treadmill.” Contact Peloton to request. Regardless, Peloton is also “implementing software improvements to the product to automatically lock the Tread+ after each use and prevent unauthorized access by assigning a 4-digit passcode that will be required to unlock the Tread+.” Tread owners also have options. The CPSC advises the following: A refund: “Consumers should immediately stop using the recalled treadmills and contact Peloton for a full refund.”  A repair: “Peloton is offering consumers who do not want a refund the option of waiting for a free inspection and repair that will secure the touchscreen to the treadmill to help prevent future incidents. CPSC and Peloton will provide an update when a timeline on that repair is made available.” Can You Keep Your Peloton Tread+ or Tread If You Don’t Have Kids or Pets? According to an FAQ Peloton put out about these recalls, the brand strongly advises anyone who owns the Tread+ to stop using it immediately. The page notes: “If you choose not to follow our joint recommendation to stop using the Tread+, it is critically important to remember to always be aware of your surroundings while using exercise equipment and to keep children, pets, and objects away from the Tread+ at all times. Please note that serious injuries or death can still occur if a child, pet, or object contacts the back of the treadmill while it is in use. Always use the safety key at all times during a workout. When your workout is complete, always make sure that the Tread+ is locked before you walk away and always store the safety key away from the device and out of the reach of children.” For more tips on treadmill safety, see our guide from experts here. As for the Tread, as the above CPSC statement advises, you can either contact Peloton for a full refund or for a free inspection and wait to use your treadmill until the touchscreen console is looked at and properly secured by a professional. What Treadmills Do We Recommend If You Want to Replace Your Peloton Tread+ or Tread? In the Runner’s World Test Lab, we’ve tested countless treadmills, and we’re always staying on top of the latest machines on the market. We do research, speak with product managers and engineers, and use our own experience running on treadmills for extended sessions in our offices in Pennsylvania and in our own homes. Below are four treadmills we love and recommend for your home gym. Click here to read in-depth reviews of these and others Some General Treadmill Safety Tips to Keep in Mind While it may seem like treadmill-related deaths are dominating headlines lately, the CPSC says only 17 deaths have been associated with the use of treadmills between 2018 and 2020, according to NBC news. However, Laura Miele-Pascoe, Ph.D., who testifies in court cases about these types of injuries, previously told Runner’s World that no matter which type of treadmill you’re using, it’s important to be mindful of the following safety measures: Minimize distractions Keep children and pets away Increase your pace gradually when you first step on Allow for 48 inches, or four feet, of clear space behind the treadmill Run (or walk!) at speeds you know you can handle safely Use the treadmill’s safety features Read your treadmill’s manual to educate yourself on safety Danielle Zickl Health and Fitness Editor Danielle specializes in interpreting and reporting the latest health research and also writes and edits in-depth service pieces about fitness, training, and nutrition. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io