Title: The Best Men’s Workout Pants for When You’re Tired of Running in Tights

Text: Pants or tights? Once the weather takes a cold turn, this question pops into male runners’ minds before they head out and brave frosty workouts. It’s the kind of decision that sways into “boxers or briefs” territory. Team Pants On the one hand, you might prefer tights for their sleek, second-skin, no-hassle fit. There’s no swish-swish coming from your thighs, no loose leg openings to let cold air creep in. But sometimes you get tired of that compressive feel; sometimes you just want a loose-fitting bottom you can work out in and lounge around in. Or maybe you’re looking for a layer that slides off easily for warm-ups and cool-downs at races. Upgraded Sweats Workout pants today are not like the ones of yesteryear, the kind where things would get moist and swampy late into your workout. Now, brands are making sweatpants with moisture-wicking, quick-drying fabric to wick away sweat. Some pants, such as Under Armour’s Qualifier Speedpocket Run Pant and New Balance’s Q Speed Run Pant are smartly tailored to include a bit more room in the thighs while still tapering to a close-fitting calf and ankle. Workout pants are also being made to look sharp for streetwear, with clean silhouettes, mock flys, and zippered ankle cuffs. Workout pants are also being made to look sharp for street wear, with tailored cuts, pockets with snaps, and zippered ankle cuffs. How We Selected Every product here has been thoroughly evaluated and vetted by our team of test editors. We research the market, survey user reviews, speak with product managers, and use our own experience wearing and running in these pants to determine the best options. Most have been tested by our staff, and those that haven’t have been carefully chosen based on their value, technical fabrics, comfort, looks, and ability to keep your legs cozy through wind, rain, and cold. Here are our picks of the best men’s workout pants for winter runs or slacking in all day. No sweat.