Title: Find Stability—and Comfort—Running in Hoka One One’s Arahi 5

Text: The RW Takeaway: The soft, lightweight Arahi 5 provides cushioned support and houses your foot in a resilient open mesh upper. Firm EVA J-Frame on the heel and medial side of the shoe New upper has breathable, durable mesh and a pull tab on the heel collar Early stage Meta-Rocker Price: $130 Type: Road Weight: 9.7 oz. (M), 7.8 oz. (W) Drop: 10mm (M), 9mm (W) More Images I used to save cushioned stability trainers for slow-pace days or recovery runs following a marathon. Lately, however, I’ve been reaching for these shoes as an everyday trainer, even on fast days. The latest models have me gliding down the road. Hoka’s Arahi 5 is no exception. This new iteration is just tenths of an ounce lighter than its predecessor, but I didn’t feel weighed down or encumbered as I ran. Lakota Gambill Arahi 5 Hoka One One hokaoneone.com $130.00 As a stability shoe, the Arahi lends overpronators support with a dense EVA J-Frame, so called because it wraps around the heel and medial side of the shoe in a J-shape. A padded tongue and heel collar lock in your ankle without causing friction. The new pull-tab, reminiscent of the spoiler on a sports car, allows you to slide into the trainer without creasing the back. The shoe’s early stage Meta-Rocker, a slightly curved sole that encourages fast and smooth heel-to-toe transitions, had me, along with other testers, up the tempo. New Mesh Upper The Arahi has a more streamlined look compared to its predecessors, with structured mesh on the heel and midfoot. Preserved is the Arahi line’s straight last, Hoka’s “flat-waisted geometry,” which provides a more accommodating fit around the midfoot. “The shoe felt secure when winding corners,” said a tester, commenting on the Arahi’s stability. Lakota Gambill Even though the 5 feels a little stiff (I had taken issue with the Arahi 4’s inflexibility), I found this rigidity a plus for my metatarsals, which were sore from overuse. Turns out too much flexibility and mileage is a cocktail for trouble. Grippy Rubber Outsole In the past, I found myself running cautiously on wet roads when I tested Hoka’s shoes, not putting much confidence in their traction. The outsoles on the Mach 2 and 3, for instance, had smooth triangulated tread that tended to slip. The Arahi 5, however, has a more textured tread pattern, which provides a tackier grip on slick surfaces. Testers had also commented on how they felt secure running in the rain and didn’t lose their footing on wet blacktop roads and concrete. Lakota Gambill More Tester Feedback Michael M., tester since 2017 Arch: Medium | Gait: Neutral | Footstrike: Heel “What I liked the most about the shoe is the durability. With the miles I was putting on these shoes, the heel held up well. I usually wear down the heel week by week. These shoes ran in rain, wind, sun, and snow. They were wet and dried very fast! I feel like I will be able to continue running in these shoes for awhile. It helped my training by being so durable that they became extremely reliable. I knew these shoes were ready to go in any conditions they were put to.” Bryan P., tester since 2013 Arch: Flat | Gait: Overpronator | Footstrike: Midfoot “[The Arahi] offered me much more stability than Hoka One One’s trail shoes as it is closer to the ground and there’s no threat of spraining my left ankle, as has happened numerous times in trail shoes. The ride was the top feature, as it felt like I was gliding on dry pavement and fine cinder trail. This is important as my left knee is bone on bone, and I would know immediately if it was not a good ride.” Amanda Furrer Test Editor Amanda is a test editor at Runner’s World and was a middle-of-the-pack Emerson College cross country runner; she’s run the Boston Marathon consecutively since 2013. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io