Title: The Best Rain Jackets Will Keep You Dry, Cool, and Ready to Perform

Text: How motivated you are to step out into a shower—and how long you’re willing to train in the rain once you’re there—often comes down to how well your jacket performs against the elements. Rain jackets for runners come in a range of options, from lightweight shells to heavy-duty outerwear, and with a variety of features, such as hoods that cinch, pockets to pack into, and reflective trimming. There’s also the fabric’s water-resistance and breathability to consider. Read on for tips on how to buy a rain jacket that fits your running style, followed by our reviews of the best after extensive testing. → Use the Runner’s World generator for help on figuring out What to Wear on your run 🏃‍♀️🏃‍♂️ Features to Consider Reflectivity To stay visible, look for apparel with reflective detail, such as the , which has reflective trim on the shoulders, lower back, cuffs, and along the zipper. Perforated Zones and Interior Mesh If you prefer or need increased airflow, consider a jacket with vents in peak sweat areas (i.e., underarms, sides, mid-back). Fourlaps’s Adapt Run has perforations along the front zipper and on the mid-back. Stowability Jackets like Brooks’s Canopy, which packs down into a mini-backpack with adjustable shoulder straps, allow you to run hands-, belt-, or “coat cape-” free. Snaps A hidden snap beneath the zipper, like the one on , lets you unzip when the temperature rises without the loose flaps violently whipping in the wind. Cinches For a more customized fit, look for a hem cinch to tighten the waist. And a cinch in the hood, like the one on , will ensure it stays on when you’re running into a headwind. Water-Resistance Terminology Waterproof: A fully waterproof jacket, like the , uses material and construction that make it much more resistant to moisture, even during long runs and heavy downpours. Sometimes you’ll see a jacket’s waterproofness represented in units: 10K/10K, 15K/15K, or 20K/20K. Using 10K/10K as an example, the first number means that, in testing, the jacket withstood up to 10,000mm of water pressing on one square inch of the fabric before it started to leak. The second 10K indicates the 10,000 grams of water vapor per square meter that the jacket can release from the inside. A 10K/10K jacket is best for mild rain, whereas a 20K/20K rating means the garment will protect you from Niagara Falls-like downpours (sort of). Water-repellent: When a garment’s material is treated with a durable water repellent (DWR) coating—like the fabric in Tracksmith’s Off Roads Packable Jacket is, for example—water beads up on the surface and can’t easily penetrate. A factor to consider: Like a running shoe’s midsole, a jacket’s DWR finish won’t last forever. How long depends on frequency of usage and exposure to water (typically 20 “washes”). Check to see if water droplets roll off the surface; if they stick and absorb into the fabric, the coating likely isn’t working anymore. But that doesn’t mean it has to be relegated to dry days only. Twenty minutes in the dryer on low heat or a spray-on application, such as ($14), can restore your jacket’s DWR finish. Water-resistant: A shell, like Cotopaxi’s Teca Light Half-Zip Windbreaker, provides a thin, water-resistant layer between you and the elements, but also allows water to sometimes soak through during extended exposure to the rain. From left: Showers Pass Cloudburst Jacket, Tracksmith Off Roads Packable Jacket, Cotopaxi Teca Light Half-Zip Windbreaker. Lakota Gambill Testing Permeability A waterproof jacket is great for staying dry, but it can be a hotbed for swampy heat midrun. Guided by Popular Mechanics test editor Brad Ford, we performed a fabric-permeability test indoors to measure how much water vapor passes through the material. We cut—yes, cut—patches from several jackets, banded them over Styrofoam cups filled with 50 grams of desiccant beads (porous beads made of silica gel), and weighed them. Then we put the cups on a perforated tray and sealed them over a bain-marie (a type of heated bath). After two hours, we went back to the cups, removed them from the bain-marie, and weighed them again, recording the difference in weight pre-sauna. This test was to assess each jacket’s breathability, the warm vapors from the bain-marie representing the sweat and heat our body generates during a run. Know that, since this experiment was performed in a controlled environment, certain variables like movement and wind will cause different results. Another thing to factor in is that this test focuses on only the fabric’s breathability, excluding perforations, mesh, and vents that help circulate airflow. Weighing 50 grams of desiccant beads in a cup before banding a piece of fabric over the top. Lakota Gambill The samples are put in a bain marie for two hours to be exposed to water vapor. Lakota Gambill We removed the cups from the bain marie and weighed them again. Lakota Gambill Results: The Brooks Canopy was made with no mesh, vents, or perforations—and no wonder. According to our permeability test, the Canopy’s thin, lightweight polyester was proven to be the most permeable out of all our jacket samples. Old Navy’s Go-H2O Water-Resistant Utility Jacket weighed in as the “least” permeable, yet it was also the only jacket we tested with an interior mesh lining. In a natural setting (say, worn outside running in windy, drizzly conditions), however, the jacket, which has a relaxed, flowy fit, proved to be breathable and not stifling. How We Chose the Best Rain Jackets Besides putting them through lab testing, we seeded these jackets to more than 50 local wear-testers for vetting. Our team logged several runs, using their own observations to evaluate wind- and rain-resistance and breathability, as well as comfort and fit. We’ve included some of their comments below. Wind-Resistant Fourlaps Men’s Adapt Run Jacket Permeability: 51.2 g Lakota Gambill Adapt Run Jacket Fourlaps fourlaps.com $148.00 Buy Now Relaxed, flowy fit allows range of motion Material is noisy compared to others The Adapt is the only jacket on this list without a DWR finish. But it blocks wind efficiently with its recycled nylon material and facilitates airflow with perforations on the front, sides, and back. These perforations, along with the relaxed fit, made the jacket a win for our tester, who liked how it was unrestrictive and added a range of motion in contrast to those with a more tailored fit. “The freedom of movement this jacket afforded was shocking,” he said. Water-Resistant Brooks Canopy Jacket Permeability: 51.7 g Lakota Gambill Brooks Canopy Jacket $120.00 brooksrunning.com Buy Now Stowable hood Packs down into a miniature backpack No drawstring to cinch the hem According to our permeability test, this jacket is extremely breathable; its cup weighed the heaviest post-bain marie sauna. The Canopy has a stowable hood so it won’t flop behind your head as you run, and front pockets with a snug compartment to slide your phone into. Its lightweight and packability make it the ideal for unpredictable weather when you may have to stash or zip up. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s Tester Feedback: “This jacket has a bunch of unique features that I sort of geeked out about. I mean, why has it taken so long for someone to think of putting snaps on the front so you can completely unzip while you’re running without the awkward coat cape or committing to taking it off and needing to stash it mid-run? And why hasn’t anyone ever thought of adding a built-in bag with draw cords that double as straps so you can wear it on your back when the temperature jumps.” Oiselle Women’s April Showers Anorak Permeability: 50.9 g Lakota Gambill April Showers Anorak Oiselle oiselle.com $98.00 Buy Now Packs into chest zipper pocket Items bounce around in pocket The April Showers Anorak packs down into the front zipper pocket and has a hood that rolls up and stays put via a strap on the collar. Our tester praised its fit—not too tight, nor too loose—and was impressed with how it cuts through the wind during a 10-mile sub-freezing run. For such a lightweight jacket though, the price may be a little steep for some. Old Navy Women’s Go-H20 Water-Resistant Hooded Utility Jacket Permeability: 50.4 g Lakota Gambill Old Navy Women’s Go-H20 Water-Resistant Hooded Utility Jacket $40.00 oldnavy.gap.com Buy Now High collar to shield neck from wind Pockets Affordable Runs large No reflectivity Heavy cinches bounce during a run Old Navy’s jacket warrants attention for two stats: the sub-$50 price and that it comes in sizes extra small to extra-extra large. The capability is there as well. Our tester stood under her showerhead to test the Go-H2O’s water-resistance and was satisfied. And it’s windproof, too. “I ran on a windy day and didn’t once feel the wind break through the jacket,” she said. “I liked the collar as it came up and protected my neck.” The hem and hood have adjustable metal drawcords, but the fit is slightly boxy. Tester Feedback: “I liked that I could cinch the bottom. [During the water-resistance test] in the shower, it repelled the water, and I would feel confident wearing this in rain or snow.” Cotopaxi Teca Light Half-Zip Windbreaker Permeability: 50.9 g Lakota Gambill Teca Light Half-Zip Windbreaker Cotopaxi cotopaxi.com $80.00 Buy Now Hood and high collar provide neck to ear coverage True to size Hood isn’t stowable Cotopaxi’s Teca line is made of repurposed and recycled materials, which are DWR-treated rip-stop nylon and polyester taffeta. Each vibrant, ultra-lightweight, unisex Half-Zip Windbreaker is basically a limited edition since no colorway combination is exactly the same. You can tuck your hands into the kangaroo pocket in the front and store the small necessities—like keys you don’t want plopping down a sewer—into the zippered drop pocket. Testers liked the protective high neckline and appreciated how the hem hit just below the hips. Water-Repellent Janji Zephyr Runner Jacket Permeability: 51.1 g Lakota Gambill Zephyr Runner Jacket Janji rei.com $114.00 Buy Now Reflective detail Chest snap to allows you to run with the jacket unzipped Packable, with a clip loop Only one zipper pocket, located on the chest Like Brooks’s Canopy, the Zephyr Runner has a chest snap, which allows you to unzip the jacket while running with minimal flappage. In fact, every detail was added with running in mind: Vents in the back allow even more airflow, the entire shell can be stuffed into the front zipper chest pocket, and reflective logos on the back and front provide some visibility in low light. The water-repellent finish is also PFC-free, making it eco-friendly (PFCs are man-made chemicals that break down very slowly once released into the environment). Buy Men’s Tester Feedback: “I think for a packable shell, this is a really great option. It’s lightweight and won’t burden you if you have to take it off, but I also didn’t overheat as the back panels were plenty breathable. For the upcoming spring, this is something you are going to want to have in your closet for the rainy, windy unpredictable Northeast weather.” Tracksmith Off Roads Packable Jacket Permeability: 50.9 g Lakota Gambill Off Roads Packable Jacket Tracksmith tracksmith.com $198.00 Buy Now Four-way stretch, water-repellent fabric Packs into a zippered pocket with an elastic strap for your hand Boxy fit Expensive The Off Roads Packable is woven with Swiss fabric that’s treated with a Nanosphere DWR finish, which gives it a thin water- and dirt-repellent layer. Our testers were impressed with the workmanship that went into this incredibly featherlight shell. The upper back has a mesh vent for air flow, a zipper garage prevents neck chafing, and the cuffs have smooth, elastic stitching. The jacket packs down into a zippered pocket, and you can carry it easily in your hand with help from an elastic band. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s Tester Feedback: “The pockets are actually really amazing. I ran one day with a carabiner on my keys, and it was like it was barely there. I like that the pockets run deep to the zipper with a slight downward angle into the pocket. I ran with keys and my iPhone 8 Plus and it wasn’t terrible. You can absolutely pack this down to almost nothing as a lightweight emergency layer.” Waterproof Hoka One One Gore-Tex Shakedry Run Jacket Permeability: 51.5 g Lakota Gambill Gore-Tex Shakedry Run Jacket Hoka One One hokaoneone.com $250.00 Fully waterproof and breathable, too Fits true to size Two front zippers serve as vents, as well as allow access to hydration vest bottles Zipper is a little catchy Reflective details, but jacket is currently only available in black Fitted cinched hood slightly flops The Shakedry is a boon to ultrarunners in for a wet forecast as they attack triple-digit mileage. The jacket is fully waterproof and makes drinkable water easily accessible on the go. Front zippers serve to both provide ventilation and allow access to soft bottles or flasks stored in the strap pockets of a vest or pack. (The jacket is expandable, fitting up to an eight-liter pack underneath). Its true-to-fit sizing allows full range of movement. Mountain Hardwear Stretch Ozonic Jacket Permeability: 51.3 g Lakota Gambill Stretch Ozonic Jacket Mountain Hardwear amazon.com $200.00 Buy Now Cinched hood and hem Velcro cuffs Holds in moisture Pricey The Stretch Ozonic is made of soft fabric that’s waterproof and abrasion-resistant. It kept testers dry in the Stretch Ozonic, but they found themselves becoming sweaty later in their run due to little ventilation. Zippered underarm vents provide some airflow, however unzipping them results in “a lot of exposure to rain,” said a tester. Other perks include Velcro tabs for securing the cuffs around your wrists or upper arm. And the jacket packs down into a zippered pocket for portability (though likely for packing into a suitcase or duffel, since it’s too bulky to carry on your run). Showers Pass Cloudburst Jacket Permeability: 50.6 g Lakota Gambill Cloudburst Jacket Showers Pass rei.com $189.00 Buy Now Reflective zipper, cuffs, and shoulders Packs down into pocket High waterproof rating and breathability rating Pocket zippers tend to catch Showers Pass makes the Cloudburst with EliteAir, a three-layer polyester fabric that has a whopping 43K/10.2K breathability-waterproof rating. Reflective trimming on the zipper, pockets, shoulders, and cuffs enhances visibility against the ivory or orange colorway. The Jacket has a tailored fit yet is roomy enough for layering, making it a great option in the rain and snow. Buy Men’s Tester Feedback: “This running jacket has a solid mix of quality, usefulness, look, and feel. What I liked most about the jacket was the material, specifically, the waterproofing. The stretchy material is very thin and comfortable to run in. It is quiet and breathable but still kept me warm and blocked out a lot of the wind. This is one of the more impressive running jackets I’ve run in.”