Title: How to Improve Running Form

Text: The situation: You’re churning through your training plan, checking off days, feeling like a boss. You know how to crush a long run; you really know how to crush a rest day; and you’ve even got some of those interval workouts figured out. But then, you come across a day that calls for “strides” on your training plan, and you’re left scratching your head, wondering just what strides running is. Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered. Here’s the rundown on running strides. What are strides? A stride, also known as a pick-up or a strider, is a short acceleration during which you over-exaggerate your running form for a prescribed period of time. They can be plugged in after easy runs to help you work on your form and mechanics (and briefly pick up your speed), to warm up before workouts or races, or stand alone as a speed workout for new runners. Why should I try strides when running? The ultimate goal of running strides is to increase your stride length while maintaining a quick turnover or cadence. Although they may sound tricky or complicated, they really aren’t. In layman’s terms, you go from an easy running pace to an accelerated pace by lengthening your stride for about 15 seconds; then you slow your speed and walk to recover and catch your breath. [Smash your goals with a Runner’s World Training Plan, designed for any speed and any distance.] How to run strides First, find a predictably flat surface (runway) that is long enough to run 30 seconds at speed (about 250 to 300 feet for most). If you have access to a track, that’s a great place to start, but if not, look for a dead-end street away from traffic or even a long patch of grass in a local park. If you’re running strides before a speed workout or race, make sure to warm up first with 3 to 5 minutes of walking and 5 to 10 minutes of easy-paced running. For races, time the strides so you complete them a few minutes prior to the start of the race. If you’re running strides at the end of an easy run, walk it out for a few minutes to bring your heart rate down and calm your breathing before you start the drill. If strides are new in your running regimen, start with a total of 4 and slowly build to 6 to 8 over time. Start the stride by running easy, focusing on a short, quick stride, and then gradually increase your speed by lengthening your stride. Keep your torso tall and relaxed. It should feel like a controlled fast pace rather than a sprint. When you reach three quarters into the runway distance, gradually decelerate by shortening your stride until you come to a walk. If you’re running by time, the total stride should be around 30 seconds (i.e. run easy for 10 seconds, increase stride length for 15 seconds, and decelerate for 5 seconds). Walk back to the starting point to recover and catch your breath, and then repeat. Strides can also be woven into the middle of an easy run, which is a great strategy for new runners with base mileage to learn mechanics and how to run faster, but strides are a great training tool for all runners from beginners to expert runners. Weave them in to your training at least once a week to dial in your form. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Some helpful workouts to get you started Quick hops. Once or twice a week, in the middle of your regular workouts, bound from foot to foot for about 30 meters at a time. Try to maximize your “air time” while minimizing the amount of time each foot spends on the ground. In other words, push hard and fast with the contact foot. Make sure that you cover more distance with these bounds than you do with your normal strides. Run on your toes. After you have warmed up properly, “sprint” on your toes for 30 meters, taking small, quick steps with high knees. Jog easily for 15 seconds to recover, and then repeat twice more. When finished, do the rest of your workout. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io