Title: Help India COVID Aid By Wearing This Human Rights Graphic Tee By Janji

Text: Janji released its WAAHAA Coalition short-sleeve Runterra tee to support India during the COVID crisis. All proceeds from sales of the t-shirt ($52) will go to the Desai Foundation. The graphic tee is available now on Janji’s website. With COVID-19 surging in India—over 300,000 new cases have been reported every day this week—Janji is chipping into relief efforts with the release of its short-sleeve Runterra WAAHAA (We Are All Human After All) Coalition graphic tee ($52), on sale at janji.com. The brand will donate all of the proceeds to the Desai Foundation, a community-based organization covering the cost of vaccines and working to provide supplies to local hospitals. “At first we designed this piece to raise awareness for the fact that Chennai was the first city around the world that literally ran out of water,” said co-founder and CEO Dave Spandorfer. “And we still deeply care about telling that story. But as we saw what was happening in Chennai and across India, we wanted to help do our part to extend the notion that We Are All Human After All—to give back and make sure the most vulnerable have the resources they need to fight COVID-19.” Janji Every season, Janji chooses a country to spotlight with a line of apparel, connecting with local artists on graphics and prints and supporting a local nonprofit by giving 2 percent of profits toward funding for clean water solutions. Last year, the brand featured the Philippines and South Africa. This season, Janji drew inspiration from Chennai, India. The graphic design on the shirt is in collaboration with a Chennai-based textile artist. “Water is a human right, we are all human after all, and therefore all deserve basic rights like access to clean water,” said Conner Callahan, Janji’s creative director. “It’s really that simple, and the psychedelic gradient/ombré swirl was meant to visually represent the melting pot that, while each person is unique, we are all interconnected, especially by the fundamental elements of life, like water.” Besides being hit by the pandemic, Chennai is the first city in the world to declare Day Zero, meaning the municipality has run out of its water supply. Now with Chennai on the verge of complete lockdown—over 5,000 cases of COVID have been reported, as of today—and oxygen supplies running low in India, Janji hopes to help the city by joining the Desai Foundation in its efforts to provide aid during the COVID crisis, and supporting projects to rehabilitate water reservoirs and create a more sustainable water supply system. Janji “We started Janji as a way to extend human rights to all people—whether you live in Boston (like we do) or Chennai, India,” said Spandorfer. “After all, Janji means ‘promise’ and it’s our promise to make the world a better place through running.” Help Chennai: the WAAHAA Coalition Runterra SS Top is available now. Amanda Furrer Test Editor Amanda is a test editor at Runner’s World and was a middle-of-the-pack Emerson College cross country runner; she’s run the Boston Marathon consecutively since 2013. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io