Title: Paces for Every Racing Distance

Text: While we know running a real race in 2020 is becoming harder to do, we also know runners are trying to stay motivated with their training by signing up for virtual races. If you’re one of the many people logging times for the race you signed up for, you may be wondering where your regular paces running during quarantine will place you for an upcoming race distance. That’s why figuring out the pace you’ll need to hit your goal is important when doing your training. Luckily, you don’t have to lock in to one specific time for every run that you do. According to running coach Susan Paul, typically runners add 30 seconds per mile to their goal race pace to as much as 2 minutes per mile. How much you choose to slow down is up to you, but remember that the longer the run, the slower the pace should be on most days. If you want to take the guesswork out of everything, you can plug in your goal time to our Training Pace Calculator tool to see how hard you should make every style of run. Keep in mind that it’s often hard to hit the perfect pace for every run. Your training paces will also vary based on things like the weather conditions, whether it’s uphill or downhill, or the terrain you are running on. Plus, other factors like poor sleep or stress at home can derail a planned. So use the following pace charts as a reference point for where you want to be with your average running pace. [Build your personalized and adaptive training plan for FREE with Runcoach .] How these charts help: Our pace charts show what time a given pace will produce for six common race distances: 5K, 5 miles, 10K, 10 miles, half marathon, and marathon. Charts are available for pace per mile, from 5:00 per mile to 15:59 per mile, and pace per kilometer, from 3:00 per kilometer to 12:59 per kilometer. Why use these charts: There are two main reasons to consult these charts. First, to easily determine your pace per mile and/or pace per kilometer from a race or recent training run. Second, to see what pace you’ll need to average for a goal time. For example, if you’re targeting a sub-1:50 half marathon, you can easily see that you’ll need to run 8:23 per mile or faster. Knowing that pace, you can then structure your training accordingly. How to use this tool: Choose which measure of pace—per mile or per kilometer—you prefer. Then select the page devoted to the pace range that most closely matches your typical times.  [Determine your pace, time or distance on our pace calculator page.] MINUTES PER MILE MINUTES PER KILOMETER Provided courtesy of the Cal Coast Track Club All pace charts are copyrighted and may not be altered, copied, or used on another web site without permission. Looking to pick up your pace? Work these moves into your routine: ​ This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io