Title: Race Time Predictor

Text: This content is imported from Third party. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. What This Tool Does: Use this calculator to predict your estimated time and pace for any popular running race distance from 1500 meters to the marathon. For best results, your recent races should have a similar difficulty level (hills, surface, heat, etc.) as the race for which you’re predicting a time. Why Use It: Estimating your finish time is a major part of race prep—and not just so you can make sure you’re tracking for a PR. How to Use It: Insert a recent race time into a field, and the tool will use an algorithm to predict your outcome for your target distance.  Note: This prediction tool becomes increasingly important as your race distance increases. Undershooting your 5K by five minutes probably won’t affect your life too much (unless you’re striving for a PR—in which case, we feel you), but underestimating your marathon time can really, really suck. Take it from Hollis Tuttle, RRCA-certified running coach and trainer for the Mirror, who learned this the hard way: “I didn’t have enough fuel, so I bonked about 3 miles out from the finish,” she says. “It was horrible.” As you plan out your races for the summer and fall, having a realistic goal in mind based on your previous race times is a great starting point when it comes to crafting the right training and racing plan. “Your approximate finish time determines everything about your race plan,” says Tuttle.  This includes important things, like wearing the appropriate layers for a change in weather. “You should know if you’ll be running through the afternoon when it heats up,” Tuttle says, along with more upbeat action items, such as crafting the perfect playlist and planning your postrace brunch. “Your cheer squad will be able to anticipate where you’ll be when, including when you cross the finish line,” Tuttle says. As for that playlist: “You’ll want to hear your favorite songs during the last quarter of the race when your energy starts to wane.” It’s a lot harder to make this happen without a sense of timing. Most importantly, you need to plan your fuel accordingly. “Carbohydrate recommendations are based on how much time you spend running,” says Jessica Chon, R.D., a nutrition specialist at Clif Bar & Company, which means not having a time estimate puts you at risk of messing up your food supply. [Build your personalized and adaptive training plan for FREE with Runcoach.] Chon says you should have 30 to 60 grams of carbohydrates every hour if you’re running 1 to 2.5 hours. (Your body has enough fuel to sustain you for runs less than an hour.) “And if you’re running for longer than 2.5 hours, that goes up to about 90 grams of carbohydrates per hour,” she says. “The more you run, the more you need to rely on external additional sources for energy.” (For context, one CLIF SHOT Energy Gel has 24 grams of carbohydrates.)  Speaking of PRs, it’s not too late to change this number if it’s slower than you thought. Here are 4 Sprint Workouts That Will Increase Your Speed . Tuttle also emphasizes the benefits of hitting the weight room: “All runners should be strength training once or twice a week,” she says. “Lifting not only helps you avoid injury, but it allows you to run faster, longer.” We suggest trying these 9 Weight-Training Exercises for Runners or blast through a series of supersets with this 30-minute workout from Runner’s World+ Coach Jess. Robert James Reese Robert is the former Executive Producer for Runner’s World Online. Kiera Carter Kiera Carter has a decade's worth of experience covering fitness, health, and lifestyle topics for national magazines and websites. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io