Title: What Should I Wear on My Run?

Text: This content is imported from Third party. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. For most, these cooler months of fall are often called the best of the year, when all you have to do is throw on a T-shirt and leggings or shorts . It doesn’t take much gear to run comfortably for miles during this time of year—and you don’t need several layers like you do during winter, and you’re not sweating buckets like you do in the summer. But even when the temperature feels great—some people love the crisp cold of winter or even the dry heat of summer—variables like humidity, wind, and rain can throw off you wardrobe game, leaving you stressed about overheating or freezing your butt off before you even walk out the door. Remember, no matter what the temperature says, your body is going to heat up as soon as you start moving. A solid rule of thumb: Dress like it’s 15 to 20 degrees warmer than it actually is. “You should be uncomfortable standing outside as you wait for your watch to sync,” says Elizabeth Corkum, a master trainer at Mile High Run Club in New York City. “If you’re fine simply standing outside, the odds are good you'll overheat once you warm up into your run.” The ideal temperature for marathon running, by the way, is 45 degrees Farenheit, according to research published in the journal PLOS One. “If you’re going all out for that long at that temperature, you’re generating so much heat that the cool air environment allows you to be the most efficient,” says Doug Casa, Ph.D., chief executive officer of The Korey Stringer Institute, which provides research on exertional heat stroke prevention. The less speed and intensity you have, the higher the temp (typically in the 50s or 60s) you’ll feel most comfortable at. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. Take the guesswork out of getting dressed with our what to wear tool, which will recommend the right gear for you no matter what the conditions are outside. Not sure if you need that jacket or vest, or can’t decide between a tank or tee? We’ve got you covered, from sunglass recs right down to your shoes. And check out the galleries below for some of our fave seasonal gear right now. Top Performing Waterproof Rain Jackets Featherlight Eddie Bauer BC Uplift Jacket Eddie Bauer $149.25 $119.40 (20% off) SHOP NOW This featherlight jacket packs a whole lot of waterproof tech to keep you dry. Its seam-sealed nylon shell is rated 20K/20K waterproof. Our tester ran in the snow and found himself dry postrun. Vents Sweat Salomon Bonatti Race Jacket Salomon rei.com $160.00 SHOP NOW This lightweight shell gives you 10K/10K waterproof and breathable coverage—meaning it’ll keep you dry in a rain shower (but not a torrent) and vents evaporating sweat during a moderate effort. Best Value The North Face Resolve 2 Jacket The North Face amazon.com SHOP NOW For runners who like a more relaxed fit that can be worn over other layers, the Resolve 2 is a packable and lightweight waterproof shell that runs a bit on the big side. Marathon Tested Brooks Canopy Jacket Brooks amazon.com SHOP NOW This jacket may not be waterproof, but it did help Des Linden win the gold at 2018’s Boston Marathon. That—and our own testing—proves the Canopy will provide enough coverage. SEMI-FITTED WINDBREAKER UA Forefront Rain Jacket Under Armour underarmour.com $60.99 SHOP NOW Under Armour’s Storm tech has a 10K/10K rating, making this semi-fitted jacket an ideal water-repellent and breathable shield.