Title: Best US Bike Trips 2021

Text: Currently Covid cases are at an all-time high in the U.S. Before you book any trip, check for travel restrictions and mandates in states and counties you’ll pass through and understand they may still be in place when it’s time for your trip. If so, respect these restrictions and their communities by rescheduling for a safer time. Riding your bike can be a fantastic escape from unprecedented stress—as many of us learned (or relearned) in 2020. And riding it someplace beyond your locals adds even more magic. But during a pandemic, everything from traveling to get someplace new to being part of a group is complicated. We debated skipping our annual travel awards, but ultimately decided to focus on stateside trips (potentially eliminating or reducing air travel) run by companies instituting rigorous safety protocols.  Our editors vetted hundreds of tour outfitters and analyzed their itineraries for things like average tour size, traveler reviews, value, and quality of the rental fleet. Each company we chose to feature established practices to combat COVID (everything from providing masks to testing staff regularly to sanitizing equipment), and many have eased their cancellation policies, decreased group sizes, and bolstered their self-guided and private trip options. Of course, it’s still up to you to travel responsibly: Ride within your limits to avoid taxing local health systems, check for travel restrictions in states and counties you’ll pass through, and if you’re sick, stay home. And if your personal situation, local conditions, or sense of caution keep you at home this year, we hope you use this list to shop for the trip you’ll do during a better time.  Whether you want to pedal through Montana’s Big Sky Country, tackle Malibu’s toughest climbs, meander Florida’s scenic Gulf Coast, or travel the Underground Railroad route by bike, these are the 26 most spectacular cycling getaways in the U.S. this year. . Dramatic Pacific Ocean vistas from the Mendocino Headlands on The Cyclist’s Menu’s Mendocino Gravel tour. Will Freihofer BEST FOR FOODIES THE TRIP Mendocino Gravel THE OUTFITTER The Cyclist’s Menu Created by husband and wife Zander and Heidi Ault (a farm-direct chef and a former pro mountain bike racer), this six-day, five-night tour seamlessly marries stellar gravel riding with phenomenal eats. Routes explore a playful 10-mile stretch of coastline and tranquil roads and trails through more than 50,000 acres of Redwood forest (daily mileage runs 30 to 70). Breakfast spreads, picnic lunches, and sumptuous evening meals all lean into local providers (fresh-caught seafood, community-grown greens, and craft brews) and group bonding (tours are capped at eight travelers; 10 for private) is the goal. Days wind down with happy hours overlooking the coast ahead of comfortable overnights at the MacCallum House Inn. 6 days | 250–300 miles | $3,650 | Intermediate/Advanced  Book Now!  The Hancock Shaker Village in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, on the Berkshires Small Group Bike Tour with Farm to Fork Fitness Adventures. Getty Images YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Berkshires Small Group Bike Tours | Farm to Fork Fitness Adventures Spend an easy morning riding between three on-farm tasting experiences in the world-renowned foodie destination before enjoying a farm-to-table lunch. 1 day | 40–60 miles | $140 | All Levels Book Now! . Cruising a ribbon of backcountry doubletrack on the Montana Gravel Tour with the Cycling House. Courtesy The Cycling House BEST GRAVEL THE TRIP Montana Gravel Tour THE OUTFITTER The Cycling House Head into northwestern Montana’s backcountry on this doubletrack and dirt road adventure. This six-day trip is fully supported, features a mix of challenging climbs and zippy descents, and offers customizable routes (daily mileage range: 20 to 55) to please less-experienced gravel riders and veterans—like the climb up to the Morrell Mountain Lookout at 7,700 feet and sections of the legendary Great Divide Mountain Bike Route. A home base at the Double Arrow Lodge in Seeley Lake means you only unpack once, and locally sourced meals prepared by Cycling House chefs keep you fortified throughout.  6 days | 160–215 miles | Starts at $2,995 | Intermediate  Book Now! Dirt Gypsy Adventure’s Sierra Gravel Camp. Courtesy Dirt Gypsy Adventures YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Sierra Gravel Camp | Dirt Gypsy Adventures This mixed-terrain camp (gravel, fire roads, asphalt, and singletrack) offers some of the best off-road riding in and around Northern California’s Tahoe National Forest—along with swimming holes, beer tastings, and farm-to-table dinners. 5 days | up to 295 miles | $1,975 | Intermediate/Advanced Book Now! . Leaves take center stage during Sojourn’s Lake Champlain Valley Fall Foliage trip. Courtesy Sojourn BEST FALL COLORS THE TRIP Lake Champlain Valley Fall Foliage THE OUTFITTER Sojourn Enjoy Vermont’s famous foliage by bike on this inn-to-inn adventure across the gently rolling valley between the Green Mountains and New York’s majestic Adirondack peaks. Daily rides wind through a breathtaking canopy of red, amber, and gold, while topping out at 54 miles—giving you time for off-bike exploring. Picnic lunches, covered bridges, and a seemingly endless number of New England’s iconic red barns add to the allure. Lodging includes historic hotels and charming country inns. 6 days | 160–275 miles | $2,559 | Intermediate Book Now! Vicksburg National Military Park in Vicksburg, Mississippi, along the Natchez Trace Guided Tour with VBT. Lindsay Colburn/VBT YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Mississippi Natchez Trace Guided Tour | VBT The South has some of the country’s most spectacular, and underappreciated, fall foliage. This guided trip gives you a generous glimpse along the historically significant Natchez Trace Parkway, a designated bike route that loosely follows the original 500-mile Native American footpath that connected Natchez, Mississippi, with Nashville. 6 days | 95–140 miles | $1,995 | Recreational/Intermediate Book Now! . A stop along the Underground Railroad route in Ripley, Ohio. Dennis Coello/Courtesy Adventure Cycling Association BEST CULTURAL HISTORY THE TRIP Underground Railroad Route THE OUTFITTER Adventure Cycling Association The Underground Railroad was the secret network of homes and churches that helped enslaved people reach free states and Canada. This route from Mobile, Alabama, to Owen Sound, Ontario, pays homage to that perilous journey and is part of the ACA’s 50,000+ mile route network. While there is a guided tour offered on the route, it is most frequently traveled by self-guided cyclists who rely on the ACA’s detailed maps and GPX data for guidance. There is no fee to ride the route other than to purchase the map set or GPX data, or use their Bicycle Route Navigator app. (Adventure Cycling members also get a discount on paper maps, among many other benefits). 2,016 miles (shortest leg 378 miles) | Intermediate/Advanced Get Info! Canyon vistas for days on Great Freedom Adventure’s Bike and Hike New Mexico Tour. Courtesy Great Freedom Adventures YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Bike/Hike New Mexico | Great Freedom Adventures Dive into New Mexico’s rich Indigenous culture and history on foot and by bike. Ride highlights include the High Road to Taos and Enchanted Circle, a National Forest Scenic Byway. 6 days | 50–130 miles (+15 walking) | $3,190 | Intermediate Book Now! . Riding through Badlands National Park in South Dakota. Courtesy Bicycle Adventures BEST FOR FAMILIES  THE TRIP Mt. Rushmore Family Tour THE OUTFITTER Bicycle Adventures This six-day itinerary pairs riding time with activities that kids (and parents) will enjoy. Options for tagalong bikes and trailers make it accessible to even the smallest riders, and van support keeps them close when legs tire out. Groups max out at eight; small enough to accommodate mood swings and last-minute plans. The route ticks off educational landmarks, too: South Dakota’s Mt. Rushmore, Wind Cave National Park, and Crazy Horse. Plus, families get ample bonding time in the afternoons and evenings to relax and unwind. 6 days | 110 miles | $2,566 | Recreational/Intermediate Book Now! On Western Spirit’s South Rim Grand Canyon trip there is no shortage of spectacular views. Courtesy Western Spirit YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE South Rim Grand Canyon | Western Spirit Families who are serious about biking will love this all-day on the bike, nights under the stars, exploration of one of America’s most iconic natural attractions. 5 days | 75–95 miles | $1,295 | Intermediate Book Now! . See Lower Yellowstone Falls on Day One of REI Adventure’s Yellowstone to Glacier tour. Getty Images BEST NATIONAL PARK TOUR THE TRIP Yellowstone to Glacier THE OUTFITTER REI Adventures You’ll hit two of America’s most stunning national parks on this 10-day, fully supported journey through Big Sky Country. Ride days range from 34 to 80 miles, and nights are spent both under the stars and in comfortable hotels. Sky-high geysers, wildlife encounters (bison and mountain goats among them), and craft beer samplings will round out your experience. Climbers will like the 10 miles of switchbacks up to the Continental Divide–Pipestone Pass. And there are plenty of off-bike thrills as well, including lake swims and whitewater rafting. The bucket-list highlight: the ride to Logan Pass at 6,646 feet up Going-to-the-Sun Road in Glacier National Park. 10 days | 455 miles | Starts at $3,999 REI members ($4,268 non-members) | Intermediate/Advanced Book Now! Maine’s Acadia National Park Getty Images YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Maine Bike Tour | Backroads Immerse all of your senses on this trip through and around Acadia National Park. Pine forests, fresh lobster dinners, and time to wander museums and local shops round out the laid-back experience. 5 days | 90–160 miles | $3,199–$3,599 | Intermediate/Advanced Book Now! . Navigating the Kokopelli trail during Western Spirit’s Fruita Singletrack trip. Courtesy Western Spirit Cycling BEST MOUNTAIN BIKING THE TRIP Fruita Singletrack THE OUTFITTER Western Spirit A mix of steady climbs and rollicking descents on this epic dirt-culture experience will keep your quads guessing. The riding is challenging, but you’ll be rewarded with near-constant panoramic views of the Colorado River Valley and La Sal Mountain range. Guides sweat the small stuff (Western Spirit has set the standard in lavish camp cuisine for more than 30 years) so you can squeeze all the stoke from some of Colorado’s premier singletrack, including the famous Kokopelli Trail, the Western Rim, and the purpose-built Book Cliff Trail System. 5 days | 100 miles | $1,295 | Intermediate/Advanced Book Now! Escape Adventures’ Idaho Hot Springs Mountain Bike Tour Andrea Tabb/Courtesy Escape Adventures YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Idaho Hot Springs Mountain Bike Tour | Escape Adventures At the end of each exhilarating day riding premium Sawtooth Mountain trails, you’ll be met with a freshly prepared meal and a bubbling hot spring to unwind in. 5 days | 70–115 miles | $1,349 | Recreational/Intermediate Book Now! . The Susan B. Anthony Museum & House in Rochester, New York, is just one historic stop on the women-only Finger Lakes Wine Country trip with WomanTours. Annette Lein/WomanTours BEST WOMEN-ONLY THE TRIP Finger Lakes Wine Country THE OUTFITTER WomanTours This women-only tour of New York’s Finger Lakes region—the birthplace of the women’s suffrage movement—includes stops in Susan B. Anthony’s and Elizabeth Cady Stanton’s hometowns. Enjoy a mix of rolling and flat terrain with rides that range from 13 to 50 miles and stops to sample the dry Riesling and other wines the region is famous for. There’s also time to explore museums and parks that tell the story of how American women fought for the right to vote.  4 days | 125–140 miles | $1,640 | Intermediate Book Now! Hitting the desert trails near Las Vegas with Sacred Rides. Getty Images YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Viva Southwest Las Vegas/St. George Mountain Bike Skills Camp | Sacred Rides Forget light spins and wine sipping: This is for mountain bikers who want a solid week of coaching on some of the best trails Las Vegas and southwestern Utah have to offer. 6 days | ~75 miles | $2,595 | Advanced . Climbing Mt. Constitution on Orcas Island during the San Juan Islands Bike Tour with Trek Travel. Bob Joy/Courtesy Trek Travel BEST FOR NEW RIDERS THE TRIP San Juan Islands Bike Tour THE OUTFITTER Trek Travel Explore this idyllic Washington State archipelago with a pair of knowledgeable guides, doable mileage (daily average: 20), and a bike that suits you best (choose a Domane SL7 Disc or a Verve+ e-bike). Wide open views of rolling farmland, the Pacific Ocean, and the majestic Cascades will distract you from any first-trip jitters. Multiple daily route options and a support van let you comfortably ride at your own pace. Fuel up on local cuisine at some of the islands’ most acclaimed restaurants, and overnight at boutique inns.  6 days | 120 miles | $3,499 | Recreational/Intermediate Book Now! Pedal under a canopy of Spanish moss on Sojourn’s Savannah to Charleston’s tour. Courtesy Sojourn YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Savannah to Charleston | Sojourn Manageable daily mileage and tree-lined routes make this great for first-timers. 7 days | 60–130 miles | $3,765 | Recreational Book Now! . Coasting to lunch after climbing Latigo Canyon with DuVine on the Malibu Challenge Bike Tour. Andy Wong/Courtesy DUVINE BEST PRO TRAINING GROUNDS THE TRIP Malibu Challenge Bike Tour THE OUTFITTER DuVine DuVine is known for crafting incredible cycling experiences, and their four-day trip in and around the Santa Monica Mountains is no exception. You’ll hit iconic local climbs like Latigo Canyon, Stunt and Piuma Roads, and the twisty hairpin turns on Decker. You’ll grab espresso at Pedalers Fork, a well-loved bike-themed eatery in Calabasas. And you’ll stay at the luxe Four Seasons Westlake Village while dining on farm-to-table meals accompanied by selections from California winemakers and breweries. DuVine can also customize a private tour by extending the trip length or increasing your daily mileage. 4 days | 165–185 miles | $3,995 | Advanced Book Now! A post-office pit stop during Trek Travel’s Texas Ride Camp. Courtesy Trek Travel YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Texas Ride Camp | Trek Travel Ride the ranchlands and rolling terrain of Texas Hill (and wine!) Country, which has long been a secret winter-training hotspot for pro cyclists. 7 days | 290–350 miles | $1,799 | Advanced Book Now! . InGamba staff setting up bikes in the Healdsburg’s Mill District during the California Wine Country trip. Courtesy inGamba BEST FOR WINE/BEER LOVER THE TRIP California Wine Country THE OUTFITTER InGamba When your meals are prepared by a Michelin-star chef (avid cyclist Matthew Accarrino) in Sonoma County, paired with hand-selected local wines, and served after you’ve ridden anywhere from 22 to 82 miles, you know you’ve hit the jackpot. Routes snake along manicured vineyards and offer up plenty of robust climbs. Trips start and end in Healdsburg, a cozy hamlet with great spots for off-bike exploring. Groups max out at 12, making for an intimate vibe. Included luxuries like postride massages and laundry service for your kit add to the pampered feel. 5 days | 210 miles | $3,450 | Intermediate Book Now! Outfitter Bicycle’s Asheville Craft Beer Bike Tour Courtesy Outfitter YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Asheville Craft Beer Bike Tour | Outfitter Bicycle This self-guided road tour includes stops at premier craft breweries in and around Asheville, North Carolina—including the bike-focused Oskar Blues in Brevard. Daily routes range from 8 to 75 miles, with a mountain bike option on day five. 6 days | 60–250 miles | starts at $1,595 | All levels Book Now! . Gulf Coast sunset view from the secluded Island of Casey Key. Courtesy Discovery Bicycle Tours BEST BEACH-ADJACENT TOUR THE TRIP Florida Gulf Beaches & Rail Trails Bike Tour THE OUTFITTER Discovery Bicycle Tours Flat rail trails hug Florida’s scenic Gulf Coast and meander through state parkland for this weeklong trip. New riders will appreciate the super-chill pace and mostly traffic-free route. Off-bike options include kayaking, cultural visits (Salvador Dalí and Ringling Museums), and even an MLB spring training game. Sleep each night in a beachside hotel. 6 days | 140–210 miles | $2,495 | Recreational  Great Exploration’s Maui Biking trip Courtesy Great Explorations YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Maui Biking | Great Explorations Ride 25 to 65 miles each day, with options to customize: whale watching, daily yoga, and the option to tackle the 38-mile climb up the Haleakala volcano. 7 days | 260–375 miles | $2,750 | Intermediate Book Now! . Classic Brownstones on Malcolm X Boulevard in Harlem. Alamy Stock Photo BEST CITY EXPERIENCE THE TRIP Experience Harlem Tour THE OUTFITTER I Bike Harlem Get an intimate look at one of New York City’s most influential neighborhoods on this afternoon outing that introduces guests to the people and places that make the area a landmark district. You’ll ride through the heart of this vibrant section of northern Manhattan, and visit sites significant to Black culture and history, including churches, jazz clubs, speakeasies, museums, famous residences, and restaurants. 4.5 hours | 10 miles | $87 | Moderate A stop in Baltimore during Bike & Brunch Tours, which also offers outings in Richmond and Charlotte. Courtesy Bike and Brunch Tours YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Baltimore, Richmond, Charlotte | Bike & Brunch Tours All levels are welcome on these morning or afternoon tours that highlight Black history and community in one of three East Coast cities. Brunch is optional (and extra), but the temptation to grab a meal at a hidden local gem will be hard to resist. 3 hours | Up to 10 miles | $28–$43 | Recreational/Intermediate