Title: The Fastest Bikes of the 2020 Tour de France

Text: The leadup to the Tour de France, and the Grand Depart itself, is traditionally a gearhead’s dream. Bike releases come hot and heavy leading up to the famed French race, and photographers stalk team buses and mechanics’ trucks in an attempt to score spy shots of soon-to-be-released equipment. But it’s September, not July, and worldwide supply chain disruptions have wreaked havoc on new product releases. Frankly, we’re just happy for some bike racing and any new tech to geek out over. The line between aero and climbing bikes is getting increasingly blurred. The Tarmac SL7, seen here under Peter Sagan, is nearly as fast as the Venge in the wind tunnel. Tim de Waele Aero road bikes dominated the news over the last few years, but we may be seeing the reversal of the split between climbing and aero rigs. Specialized and Trek are leading the charge, respectively, with a new Tarmac that’s almost as quick as the Venge and an Émonda that’s dramatically faster than its predecessor. But aero road bikes aren’t dead yet. Keen eyes may have noticed an unreleased Canyon Aeroad under Alejandro Valverde and Warren Barguil, and Scott rolled out an update to the Foil prior to the start of the Tour. Rim brakes are increasingly rare in today’s peloton. DAVID STOCKMAN 2019 witnessed the proliferation of disc brakes in the pro peloton, and we were intrigued to see a few major teams exclusively using disc brakes. Purists hoping to see disc brakes go by the wayside will be disappointed this year, but the Tour may well be won on rim brakes as both Jumbo-Visma, on the Bianchi Oltre XR4, and Inoes Grenadiers, on the Pinarello Dogma F12, still cling to rim brakes. While this year’s Tour may not be the tech showcase we’ve come to know and love, there is still plenty of cool new gear rolling around the French countryside right now. Let’s review the best bikes of this year’s Tour de France. Which one would you like to ride? Let us know in the comments. Team Jumbo-Visma: Bianchi Oltre XR4 Tim de Waele Jumbo-Visma will be attempting to break the Ineos stranglehold on the Tour de France aboard the Bianchi Oltre XR4. It’s not the lightest bike in the peloton, and Bianchi makes no earth-shattering claims about superior aerodynamics. Nor does this bike have disc brakes. But those who argue that it’s about the rider more than the bike are rejoicing at the sight of Wout van Aert crushing stage wins and Primož Roglič cruising in the yellow jersey of the leader of the Tour de France (not to be confused with the yellow jersey of team Jumbo-Visma), all while using rim brake-equipped rigs. Shimano is an official team partner, and as such the bikes are hung with a complete Shimano drivetrain, including wheels from the Japanese brand wrapped in Vittoria rubber. Gone from the list of sponsors is longtime supporter Pioneer, which had supplied the team with power meters for many years. Riders now rely on 4iiii power meters that send data to Garmin computers. FSA cockpits adorn the front of the bikes, and Fizik saddles are under the rider’s rear ends. Team NTT: BMC Teammachine SLR01 Disc Tim de Waele NTT is aboard BMC bikes again for this year’s Tour. Team riders will use the aero-optimized Timemachine or the newly redesigned Teammachine SLR01 Disc seen here. Team NTT’s drivetrain is less homogeneous than most teams’. Shimano, SRAM, and Campagnolo’s sponsorships are (usually) contingent upon a team using an entire group—crank, chain, derailleurs, shifters, brakes, and often wheels—with no exceptions. NTT’s sponsors include Rotor (chainrings and 2InPower power meter cranks), KMC (chains), and Enve (wheels and handlebars). With those brands on board, NTT won’t get official sponsorship from one of the major drivetrain brands. So the team purchases the bits it needs to fill out its bike builds from Shimano. The team uses Dura Ace Di2 shifters, derailleurs, and brakes mixed in with parts from its official sponsors (some bikes also have aftermarket derailleur pulleys). Other bits include Selle Italia saddles, Vittoria tires, Garmin GPS units, and K-Edge computer mounts and chain watchers. Lotto Soudal: Ridley Noah Fast Tim de Waele Like most teams in the Tour, Lotto-Soudal’s riders have two different road bikes at their disposal. Depending on the stage and/or the rider’s preferences, they might use Ridley’s Helium SLX climbing bike or the Noah Fast aero bike used by Caleb Ewan. Despite being a Belgian team riding Belgian frames, Lotto-Soudal’s team bikes are built with a heavy dose of Italian parts: Campagnolo’s Super Record EPS 12-speed drivetrain and Bora wheels, Deda Elementi bars and stems, Vittoria tires, and Selle Italia saddles. Non-Italian sponsors include Ekoi eyewear and HJC helmets, as well as SRM power meters, C-Bear ceramic bearings, Lizard Skins bar tape, Jagwire segmented brake housing, and Tacx bottle cages. Arkea Samsic: Canyon Ultimate CF Tim de Waele Nairo Quintana and Warren Barguil are tackling this year’s tour aboard Canyon bikes hung with a full complement of Shimano components. The team will use both the Ultimate CF, the German brand’s lightweight climbing bike, as well as the aerodynamic Aeroad. Keen eyes may notice the Aeroad under Barguil looks different from the bike promoted on Canyon’s website. Canyon remains tight lipped on the updates, but it’s hard to hide the deeper tube sections on the downtube and fork, dropped seat stays, and updated cockpit that hides all brake lines inside the frame. The team uses Elite bottles and cages, Selle Italia saddles, and relies on Continental rubber. Wahoo computers adorn the riders’ handlebars. Trek Segafredo: Trek Emonda SLR Disc Tim de Waele Richie Porte and his Trek-Segafredo teammates have their choice of Trek’s new Emonda SLR climbing bike (pictured here) or the Madone aero bike outfitted with SRAM’s Red eTap AXS wireless electronic group. Tires come from Vittoria, Garmin GPS units track the riders’ power, and most of the other parts come from Trek’s Bontrager division. Trek’s bikes are one of the few available off-the-shelf in almost exactly the same build as the team races. Team Ineos Grenadier: Pinarello Dogma F12 Tim de Waele Egan Bernal will chase a second consecutive Tour title aboard the latest iteration of Pinarello’s Dogma—the F12. Pinarello claims the F12 offers a 7.3 percent aerodynamic and 10 percent lateral stiffness improvement over the already formidable F10. Though there is a disc-brake version of the F12, Ineos continues to use rim brakes. The team uses Shimano drivetrains, power meters, and wheels, with Continental providing tires, and Pinarello’s MOST house brand taking care of bar, stem, and seatpost. For climbing stages, expect to see riders aboard an X-Light F12 (a lightened F12 frame) equipped with made-in-Germany Lightweight carbon wheels. EF Education First: Cannondale SuperSix EVO Tim de Waele EF is another team that has a couple of frames to choose from: Cannondale’s aero SystemSix or the lighter SuperSix EVO (seen here). Either way, the team uses Shimano drivetrains; Shimano isn’t an official partner, so Cannondale is free to use its SiSL2 crankset with Power2Max power meter (a Shimano drivetrain sponsorship would require the team to use Shimano cranks and power meter). Handlebars, stems, and chainrings come from FSA, with Vision providing wheels (Vision is a division of FSA). Prologo supplies the saddles and bar tape, Garmin GPS units keep track of power, and Vittoria serves up its lovely tires. Bora-Hansgrohe: Specialized S-Works Tarmac SL7 Michael Steele Peter Sagan’s Bora-Hansgrohe team is competing in the 2020 Tour on much the same equipment it used for the previous edition. Specialized likes to provide its teams with a quiver of bikes from which to choose, but with the release of the Tarmac SL7, which the brand claims is nearly as fast as the Venge and lighter than the previous Tarmac, expect to see riders primarily on that. Specialized also provides the team with tires, saddles, and Roval wheels. The team uses Shimano Dura-Ace Di2 9170 components with Specialized power meters and Wahoo GPS units. Ag2r La Mondiale: Eddy Merckx Stockeu69 Michael Steele Romain Bardet and his teammates race aboard bikes from new sponsor Eddy Merckx. You can see riders on the Merckx 525—named after Eddy’s unparalleled 525 victories—and the Stockeu69 (in the photo above), which owes its name to a notable climb along the Liege-Bastogne-Liege route. The use of small-diameter round tubes means the Stockeu69 is designed to be as light as possible with a high stiffness-to-weight ratio—in other words, it’s a climber’s bike. Though the team has no official drivetrain sponsor, most of Ag2r’s bikes have Shimano bits dressed up with parts from sponsors Rotor (cranks), and Ceramic Speed’s OSPW pulley system and UFO treated chains. Other sponsors include Vredestein tires; Deda Elementi bars, stems, and seatposts; Mavic wheels; Fizik saddles; and Lezyne GPS units. Movistar: Canyon Aeroad CF SLX ANNE-CHRISTINE POUJOULAT Movistar’s riders use much the same equipment in the 2020 Tour as they did last year, with the notable switch to SRAM’s RED eTap AXS drivetrain instead of Campagnolo Super Record EPS. They can choose between two models from Canyon: the Aeroad CF SLX and, for when things get climby, the Ultimate CF SLX. The bikes sport Canyon’s own bars, stems, and seatposts. New sponsor SRAM supplies the team with drivetrain and Zipp wheels, and the package is rounded out with Quarq power meters, a Garmin GPS unit, Look pedals, a Fizik saddle, Continental tires, and matching Lizard Skins DSP bar tape. Mitchelton-Scott: Scott Addict RC Tim de Waele Michelton-Scott’s riders are aboard the Scott Addict RC again this year. While the glorious chameleon paint steals the show, the bike underneath is also impressive. The Addict RC is enhanced with improved aerodynamics by hiding the hoses, housing, and wires inside the proprietary bar and stem system. Dropped seatstay attachments and aero shaping to the downtube, headtube, seat tube, seatpost, and seatstays help, too. Scott claims the current Addict RC is over 14 percent stiffer than the previous model, and that this disc-brake-only bike hits the UCI minimum weight of 6.8kg in sizes medium and under (with team build). The rest of the team’s equipment also mirrors last year. Syncros, Scott’s house brand, provides the bars, stems, seatposts, and saddles, while Shimano serves up its Dura Ace Di2 drivetrain with power meter and wheels. Tires are from Pirelli, and the team will watch its watts on Garmin GPS units. Total-Direct Énergie: Wilier Triestina Zero SLR Tim de Waele Total-Direct Énergie should sail up the climbs on their Wilier Zero SLR frames, which are dressed in a fetching shade of blue. The disc-only Zero SLR’s frame is made up of simple rounded tube shapes in its quest for low weight—a claimed 780 grams—while the integrated bar-stem tidies things up and improves aerodynamics by hiding brake and derailleur lines. The team uses Shimano Dura-Ace Di2 electronic components, and Ursus provides wheels shod in Hutchinson rubber. The riders pound on Shimano pedals and rest atop Prologo saddles as they make their way through the French countryside. Deceuninck—Quick-Step: Specialized S-Works Tarmac SL7 Tim de Waele Other than paint, the Specialized bikes of Deceuninck—Quick-Step are almost identical to the bikes of Bora-Hansgrohe. Julian Alaphillipe is piloting the new Tarmac SL7 dressed with a Shimano Dura Ace Di2 drivetrain and a Specialized saddle and Roval wheels. Deceuninck’s Tarmacs are fitted with bars and stems from Shimano’s PRO component line, while Shimano’s Dura Ace power meter sends data to Bryton GPS units. Israel Start-Up Nation: Factor Ostro VAM Michael Steele This team is making its Tour de France debut aboard Factor bikes. We’ve seen both the aerodynamic Factor Ostro VAM and the lighter Factor 02 VAM on the mountain stages. The drivetrain is a blend: Shimano brakes, shifters, and derailleurs, 4iiii power meters that send data to Bryton computers, and unidentified third-party rotors seen here. The oversized Ceramic Speed derailleur pulleys are conspicuous, and the Black Inc. hoops are likely fitted with Ceramic Speed bearings as well. Team Sunweb: Cervelo S5 Tim de Waele Cervelo frames are the choice for Sunweb riders again in 2020, either the lightweight R5 or the aerodynamically optimized S5 seen here. The S5’s integrated cockpit means it’s an all-Cervelo affair, while the drivetrain and disc brakes are Shimano’s Dura Ace Di2 group with Dura Ace powermeter and wheels. Saddles are from PRO, tires from Continental, and the GPS units are supplied by Sigma. UAE Team Emirates: Colnago C64 Tim de Waele UAE Team Emirates rides the most desirable, and most Italian, bikes in the peloton. Riders can choose from Colnago’s lightweight V2-r, the Concept aero road bike, or the incomparable made-in-Italy C64. No matter the frame, riders use Campagnolo Super Record 12-speed components, Campagnolo wheels, Deda Elementi bars and stems, Prologo saddles, and Vittoria tires. Groupama-FDJ: Lapierre Xelius SL Tim de Waele Groupama-FDJ is using disc brakes again in 2020. Shown here is the Lapierre Xelius SL Disc frameset, though some riders are aboard the French brand’s Aircode aerodynamic frame. FDJ’s long partnership with Shimano continues, with the Japanese brand providing Dura Ace Di2 disc brake groups, the Dura Ace power meter, and Dura Ace wheels. Bars, stems, and seatpost come from Shimano’s PRO brand, while other bits include Continental tires, Prologo saddles, and Garmin GPS units. CCC Team: Giant TCR Advanced SL 0 Disc Tim de Waele Many riders are astride the new TCR Advanced SL 0 , although some are still choosing the aerodynamic Propel Disc on the flattest stages. Giant recently rolled out a high-end parts brand called Cadex, which supplies wheels and saddles, while Giant-branded parts are used for the bar, stem, and even the bottle cages. CCC uses Shimano Dura Ace drivetrain and brakes, Dura Ace Power meters, and Giant GPS units and tires. Astana Pro Team: Wilier Zero SLR Michael Steele Like Total-Direct Énergie, Astana riders are also piloting Wilier’s featherweight Zero SLR frameset hung with Shimano parts. Ceramic Speed derailleur pulleys are easy to spot, and longtime sponsor Corima supplies wheels. Look pedals again appear on the team’s bikes, fixed to Power2Max power meters. Prologo saddles have the honor of cushioning Astana riders as they pedal through the French countryside. Cofidis: De Rosa Marek Rossa Team Tim de Waele Next to UAE Team Emirates, no one rides more Italian bikes than this French team. Cofidis climbers swing their legs over the De Rosa Merak Rossa Team, while Elia Viviani chases stage wins aboard the company’s SK Pininfarina. Campagnolo is an official team partner, and the bikes are hung with the brand’s electronic Super Record EPS groupset. Other Italian sponsors include Elite and Selle Italia. Look pedals and SRM power meters handle the pedaling, and the team rolls on Fulcrum wheels wrapped in Michelin rubber. Bahrain-McLaren: Merida Reacto Disc Team Tim de Waele Bahrain-McLaren riders hunt for stage victories with a pair of bikes from Merida: the Reacto Disc Team and the Scultura Disc Team. The team doesn’t have an official drivetrain sponsor, but we see primarily Shimano drivetrains and SRM power meters. FSA supplies bars and stems, and the wheels are from FSA’s subsidiary brand Vision (they roll on Continental rubber). Bahrain-McLaren is yet another team with an Italian flair from product sponsors, including Rudy Project helmets, Scicon eyewear, Sidi shoes, Elite bottle cages, and Prologo saddles.