Title: How to Buy a Cycling Jersey

Text: So you’re in the market for a cycling jersey, but you’re not quite sure what you want. You’re seeing words like ‘athletic,’ ‘fitted,’ ‘comfort’—shouldn’t you want all three?—and UPF—is that even important?—And they all claim to be breathable, but you beg to differ with that last jersey you had. We know there are a lot of options out there, so here are some basic guidelines on what you can expect to encounter in your quest for the right cycling jersey, whether you’re new to the sport or have been searching for the perfect jersey for years. Where to Buy First thing’s first: Where should you look? Since fit and style can vary, we recommend trying on jerseys before purchasing one. For that, head to your local bike shop or a sporting goods stores such as Dick’s Sporting Goods or REI. (The coronavirus pandemic has placed restrictions on retail and bike shops throughout the country, so call ahead to see which safety measures are required.) If you’re not familiar with many (or any) cycling apparel brands, skim websites such as rei.com, competitivecyclist.com, backcountry.com. You might find something you like there, or you can at least familiarize yourself with different brands, styles, and features. Then go to the specific companies’ websites to see even more of what they have to offer. If you already know the brands you love and your size, simply shopping online should suffice. [Want to fly up hills? gives you the workouts and mental strategies to conquer your nearest peak.] Different Cuts and Fits Refer to a company’s size chart before purchasing since sizing between different brands (and even within one brand) can vary wildly. For jerseys, you’ll need to know your chest and sometimes waist measurement. (Many size guides list measurements in both centimeters and inches. A makes finding your measurements easy.) But in addition to having a size chart, many companies also offer different “fits” ranging from loose to skin tight; these allow the buyer to better envision what kind of jersey they’re looking at. Some cyclists prefer a looser-fitting top, while others may want something skin tight—whether it’s for comfort, performance, or style. Knowing how a jersey fits can also help with selecting the right size. Each company tends to use its own terminology for every fit they offer, but they all describe roughly the same thing. Jerseys are usually grouped into anywhere from three to five different fits, sometimes more; companies will offer explanations of what these entail on their respective websites in their size guide or a separate fit guide. Below are explanations of common fits, organized from the loosest and most casual to the tightest and more serious.  Mountain Bike / Technical Tee Though we’ve grouped these together here due to fit, there are often subtle differences between the two. A technical tee, especially from an athletic company that isn’t cycling specific, is simply a t-shirt made from fabric that’s better suited for exercising. Mountain bike jerseys are sometimes just that, too, but it’s now common for them to include mountain biking-specific features like a built-in, micro-cloth lens wipe for your sunglasses and a small zippered pocket for your keys. You can even find “jerseys” that don’t look the part but come with the same performance benefits, like this Club Ride shirt. Some cyclists prefer to wear this style of jersey on off-road or gravel bikes for laidback rides, like bike-packing trips or all-day adventures.  Cyclone Tee Kitsbow kitsbow.com $65.00 Shop Now Sandia Short Sleeve Jersey Wild Rye competitivecyclist.com $75.00 Shop Now Recreational / Comfort There’s a reason why you see cyclists riding around with pockets on their backs: A proper cycling jersey can be both practical and comfortable. This cut is for those who want a cycling jersey without looking like they’re about to join the pro peloton. It might be tighter than a technical tee and has useful features like a zipper and back pockets. The sleeves on these might be similar to a technical tee, or a bit tighter, and they may have some kind of elastic band along the bottom edge near the hips to hold them in place.  GORE® C3 Zip Jersey GORE WEAR gorewear.com $80.00 Shop Now Quest Jersey Pearl Izumi competitivecyclist.com $41.25 Shop Now Athletic / Fitted These sportier jerseys are a happy medium between the relaxed fit and the professional-level jerseys that hug every curve. They’re form-fitting and tight, but not tight enough to describe them as “aero” (which is a super tight jersey that offers the least wind resistance). You’ll also see snugger and/or longer sleeves on some of these, sometimes with a stretchier band of material along the bottom edge to hold them in place. You’ll start seeing a wider variety of pocket designs with these, including ones with zippers to hold valuables.  Pro / Race As the name implies, these jerseys are like the ones you’d see on a professional or elite competitive cyclist. They’re the stretchiest, most form-fitting jerseys on the market. The tightest of these are sometimes described as “aero.” They’re often characterized by a high-cut front (where the zipper ends) with a lower cut back, longer sleeves, and/or low to no collar. Pro/race jerseys use high-performance fabrics. These are typically the most expensive, due to the materials used and the quality of construction. R-EV1 Race Men's Short Sleeve Jersey Alé alebikewear.com $89.99 Shop Now SL Race Jersey - Women's Specialized competitivecyclist.com $150.00 Shop Now Fabric Options The trope of the spandex-clad cyclist is actually pretty accurate, at least from a fabric standpoint. In fact, Lycra (which is a brand name) and spandex are the same type of fabric and also go by the name elastane. It’s found in most cycling apparel nowadays, thanks to its high stretchability, breathability, and moisture-wicking properties. Polyester and nylon are the other big fabrics that make up many cycling jerseys. (Waterproof fabrics, like Gore-Tex, are typically limited to cycling jackets, vests, and pants. There are some water resistant jerseys on the market though, like the from Giordana.)  You don’t have to be limited to just those options, though alternatives can admittedly be hard to come by and will almost always be blended with those common materials. So, here are some other fabrics and blends to consider. Wool Believe it or not, wool is a great material for athletic wear, even in warm weather. The right wool (like soft Merino) and blend can greatly improve a garment’s sweat-wicking ability without detracting from comfort. Plus, wool is also good at controlling odors.  Ashlu Merino Jersey - Women's 7mesh competitivecyclist.com $169.95 Shop Now Classica Short Sleeve Jersey - Men's De Marchi competitivecyclist.com $179.95 Shop Now Recycled Materials Some companies are incorporating recycled materials into their jerseys, for those looking for a more environmentally friendly option. For example, Pearl Izumi offers jerseys made entirely with recycled polyester from water bottles, and Giro’s Renew collection derives some of its recycled materials from fishing nets.  Silk If you’re really looking for something different, or still haven’t found the perfect hot weather jersey, you might want to give a try. The company says the jersey is its lightest on the market, and that the silk—which makes up 56 percent of it—is naturally antibacterial and odor-resistant. Other Considerations Temperature Rating Dressing for the right weather goes beyond simply choosing between long, short, or no sleeves. Even within the category of short sleeves, you have plenty of options. Cycling apparel companies will often list the recommended temperature range for their products. (You won’t want to wear a jersey rated for 65 degrees in 90-degee weather.) This is especially valuable if you can’t see the cycling jersey in person, or if you’re specifically looking for a hot weather jersey. Temperature and personal comfort are often subjective, but referring to a jersey’s temperature range can still be helpful and can give a better sense of how thick and breathable that particular fabric might be. UPF Rating  A jersey with a high UPF rating—that stands for ultraviolet protection factor—will protect your skin all year round, but especially in the summer months. (Cyclists have actually been known to get sunburn through their jersey.) Some fabrics, like elastane and even wool, are inherently good at blocking UV rays—though the more they stretch, the less that’s true. Many companies list the UPF rating of its jerseys. You can find jerseys with a UPF rating as high as 50+, like the jerseys below.  Pearl IzumiP.R.O. Escape Jersey - Men's Pearl Izumi competitivecyclist.com $98.00 SHOP NOW The Fruits Print Jersey Machines for Freedom competitivecyclist.com $178.00 Shop Now Layer More, Own Less It’s hard to find, or at least own, the best cycling jersey for every kind of weather and temperature you’ll experience. (And even those can fluctuate dramatically within a single ride!) The best way to address this is by adding some layering options to your cycling wardrobe, especially pieces that are easily portable on the bike like arm warmers, a neck gaiter, a vest, and/or a light windbreaker jacket. We also recommend buying at least a sleeveless base layer to help keep your core warm during cooler weather. Having these helpful accessories means you can focus on owning just a few essential cycling jerseys. Work Within Your Budget If price is your biggest concern when looking for the right cycling jersey, don’t worry—there are good options in every price range. Pricing on short sleeve jerseys generally runs anywhere from $30 to $200, sometimes more. Decathlon offers basic athletic jerseys for as low as $10. Aero and pro jerseys are typically the most expensive. When it comes to quality, you usually get what you pay for. Above all, stick with reputable cycling apparel brands, and steer clear of knock-offs on websites like Amazon and AliExpress. Once you have your jerseys in hand, make the most of your investment by caring for them properly. Washing your kit the right way will help your gear retain it’s elasticity, shape, and performance; these things will inevitably deteriorate with age and extensive use, and that’s when you’ll want to replace the jersey. Online Returns Before purchasing a cycling jersey online, check the company’s (or distributor’s) return policy, in case it doesn’t fit or wasn’t what you had in mind. Most will allow returns for unused items. Some retailers offer even more consumer-friendly options, too; REI allows customers to return unsatisfactory used items up to a year after purchase, and Rapha offers both jersey repairs and 50 percent off a smaller size on jerseys purchased within that year for cyclists who have lost weight.  This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io