Title: Common Causes of Numbness While Riding

Text: Cyclists don’t experience numb toes and feet only in cold temperatures. It usually starts as a little tingle. Maybe it feels like pins and needles in your toes, but as you pedal on, it doesn’t get better. No matter if you’re just getting into cycling, or you’ve logged some serious hours in the saddle, it’s likely you’ve experienced numbness or even tingling toes while riding. And sometimes (especially on long rides), this can spread to the entire foot, causing discomfort for miles. Numbness is annoying and sometimes painful, but most of all, it can take away from the pleasure of riding. It’s important to remember, though, that you aren’t alone—numb feet and tingling toes are some of the more common issues reported by cyclists. Join Bicycling now for the latest advice and tips! Common Causes of Numbness According to Scott Holz, senior program manager for Specialized Bicycle Component and leading bike fit expert, toe and foot numbness on the bike often has two main causes: nerve compression or blood circulation restriction. There are several factors that can cause nerve compression including, “the cleat placement, improper arch support (too much or too little), or shoes that are too tight or especially too narrow, and the incorrect pedal stance width,” says Holz. He’s even seen cleat bolts that were too long for the thickness of the sole pressing into the bottom of the feet, which can cause numbness. Your riding posture may also have a lot to do with foot pain or numbness. “When you’re on the bike, there is lot of stress around the low back and pelvis, and a reasonable number of cyclists develop a type of foot numbness that is referred from the back when nerves there are pinched,” says Mark Gallagher, a podiatrist with Pure Sports Medicine in Kensington, United Kingdom. While it’s certainly possible to ride through the sensation, it’s better to identify what’s causing the problem and take preventative steps in order to avoid any lasting nerve damage. “Anytime nerve compression is ignored, there is a chance of lasting damage,” says Holz. “One such issue is a Morton’s neuroma, and this is where one of the plantar nerve branches develops scar tissue around the branch as it tries to protect the nerve from the compression,” he says. The result: lasting or permanent pain and numbness. If your shoes are too narrow, this can exacerbate the condition, but metatarsal button additions to the insole can help. Dress footwear (pointy shoes and tall heels) can also contribute to this condition off the bike, he adds. On the other hand, blood circulation restriction can be a result of some of the same issues, “but it’s more commonly related to poor fitting shoes or footbeds, or temperature as the feet are often the first part of the body affected by cold temps on a bike,” says Holz. How to Deal with Numb Feet or Tingling Toes While knowing the cause is important for understanding why your feet or toes are going numb, it’s more helpful to know how to alleviate the issue midride if you start to feel numbness creeping in. Holz suggests first trying to loosen your shoes midride, especially in heat. “This will release both compression and help circulation,” he says. Sometimes getting off the bike and simply massaging the feet will also help. Of course in competition, these fixes are not ideal, so getting to the root cause is the best solution. If either fix is required frequently, “then something is not right with the foot-bike interface, as this degree of discomfort is not normal,” he says. For a long-term solution, Holz has three key tips for preventing your feet and toes from going numb, but note that numbness while riding is not a one-size-fits-all solution. A bit of experimentation and maybe even professional consultation will be required before you find the right individualized fix for you.  Make Sure the Shoes Fit The stiff soles of cycling shoes are great for power transfer, but that also means the toes don’t do much of the work. Your toes need extra wiggle room to account for swelling, and the shoes should also be comfortable and have no pressure points. “If you have pressure points just trying the shoes on, they seldom get better on the bike. Most cycling shoes are made of materials that are not meant to stretch much, but this also means they don’t ‘break-in’ that much either, so they should be comfortable from day one, or they are probably the wrong shoe,” says Holz.  Gallagher also suggests asking about different cleats and pedals at your trusted local bike shop, as they should have great knowledge of the interaction of the foot with the bike.  4 of Our Favorite Cycling Shoes Best Value and Style Sidi Alba 2 $239.99 Buy Now Super stiff carbon sole and synthetic upper. Best Budget Race Shoe Shimano SH-XC5 $170.00 BUY NOW Small heel cup works well for small feet. Most Stylish Road Shoe Giro Empire ACC $299.95 BUY NOW Full lace closure and women-specific fit. Best Value Road Shoe Specialized Torch 1.0 $110.00 Buy Now Combination Boa and Velcro closure. Give Your Arches Some Support SOLE Active Medium Volume Footbed Insoles amazon.com SHOP NOW Choosing the right footbed, and replacing the stock low-profile footbed found in most cycling shoes, is important to supporting your arch in a neutral position. “Footbeds not only prevent arch collapse which can increase efficiency, they also help distribute pressure over the entire area of the sole, and this removes pressure points that cause nerve compression or circulation loss,” says Holz.  Many cycling shoes come with a variety of arch supports you can try, or you can replace the entire insole with an over-the-counter option like SOLE moldable insoles. Gallagher adds that although the mechanics of the foot while cycling do differ from land-based activity, “the role of orthotics needs to be judged on a case-by-case basis depending on the problems that the cyclist is experiencing.” In some cases, they can mitigate numbness and tingling, but insoles aren’t a blanket cure, and they may not be right for everyone, so he suggests working with a professional or a podiatrist to figure out what’s best for you. Get a Professional Bike Fit This one is pretty straightforward. Minute details can be difficult to self-diagnose as a novice and even an experienced cyclist, so having a certified bike fitter take a physical assessment of your mechanics and foot structure can help determine what’s causing foot and toe issues. “A seat position that is too high or low, or an undiagnosed leg-length discrepancy, can put extra stress on your back and hips, pinch nerves, and contribute to symptoms like numbness and tingling,” says Gallagher. A professional bike fit generally includes a detailed look at other numbness-causing factors like cleat position, stance width, and posture and costs anywhere around $200 to $500 depending on the shop, fitter, and level of customization. Michael Nystrom Freelance Writer Michael Nystrom is a two-time IRONMAN finisher and a former editor at Active Network, Muscle & Performance and Oxygen Magazine. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io