Title: How to Corner on a Bike

Text: As a pro cyclist, I worked hard to improve my cornering skills. During a stage of the Tour of Britain, I remembered there was a turn 400 meters before the line. I attacked early, railed the corner, and opened a gap. I raised my arms in victory at the finish, only to be told that this gesture was against the rules. I was relegated to last in the break, but relished the fact that my strategy had worked. Solid cornering skills aren’t just for pros, either. Learning how to corner on a bike the right way is an important skill to have as a cyclist at any level. It isn’t just about going faster—proper cornering is about having better control over your bike, making your rides safer and more enjoyable. “Having confidence in your cornering ability will allow you to enjoy your riding a lot more,” says Neal Henderson, a cycling and triathlon coach for over 20 years, who served as a cycling coach for the U.S. Olympic team in 2012 and 2016. “If you ever get the opportunity to climb big mountains, in most cases they’re not straight lines. They have switchbacks and turns, so once you start coming back down, you’ve got to rely on those skill sets to be able to enjoy the descent.”  Cornering does take practice, so be patient and keep at it. But once you feel the power and control of a properly carved turn, there’s nothing better. Here are some techniques that have helped me, plus tips from Henderson’s years of experience.  Brake Early On descents or high-speed turns, do all of your braking before the turn. “Your speed control has to be done—most effectively and safely—before you initiate the turn,” Henderson says. “If you are turning and braking at the same time, you have much more risk of losing traction and sliding, crashing, etc. So, controlling speed before you even initiate the turn is very important.” You’ll also want to think about braking earlier than usual leading up to the turn when riding in wet conditions, even with disc brakes. “It’s not just the power of the brake, it’s keeping the tire in contact with the ground, and not sliding or skidding,” Henderson says. “Using both front and rear brakes when you’re braking is important.” Feathering the brakes, the technique of lightly and rapidly alternating pressure and release of the brakes, can help you control your speed better than slamming on the brakes. Look Where You Want to Go As you go through the turn, you should look in the direction you want to go. This will help you maintain a smooth line. Plus, it does help control where you end up going. “Your eyes always lead the way,” says Henderson. “If you ever do slow switchbacks, like going uphill on a mountain bike trail, it’s critical for your eyes to lead the way.” By shifting your gaze, your bike will follow. Trevor Raab [ Gravel! prepares you with everything you need to know to crush it , including the best gear, how to train, and much more!] Mind the Terrain You should also be on the lookout for sand, rocks, debris, gravel, or cracks that could cause you to slip. Henderson says it’s good to practice riding on different surfaces. After you know what the riding conditions are in a particular corner, you can slowly increase your speed each time. “If you ride a mountain bike or a gravel bike, you know that the terrain is much more variable, and how you corner and turn on those different surfaces does vary,” Henderson says. “So you can’t use the exact same technique in all cycling disciplines, because of the surfaces that you’re riding on. Dirt, rocks, dust, gravel, all of those have differences in how you handle your corners.” Throw rain into the mix and that changes your approach even more so. Painted lines, manhole covers, and oily pavement become slippery in wet conditions. Wet roads exaggerate everything you do. Braking while the bike is leaning will cause you to skid more easily, and sudden turning can make your wheels slip—so slow down. Your bike setup also plays a role here, Henderson says: “What tires you are using in wet weather and what pressure you are running has an impact on what kind of speed you can handle through a given turn. So a wider tire at a lower pressure is going to be able to run at a little bit higher speed than would be a more narrow and higher pressure tire.”  Shift Your Weight and Lean the Bike Weight distribution is critical. To keep from sliding out, weight the front wheel by putting your hands in the drops of the handlebar with your elbows bent. Don’t try to pedal in a corner.  Trevor Raab “On a road bike, generally you want to be on the drops for the greatest control in a corner. That does change where your body position is, too, and where your center of mass is and the weighting on both the front and rear wheel,” Henderson says. “If you don’t have enough weight on your front wheel you can wash out your front wheel. On a mountain bike, think a little bit more of that ready position, where you have flexed elbows.” Next, exert pressure with your outside hand and foot, creating angulation like you would in a ski turn. “We want to have the inside foot up, outside foot down, and push into the outside foot—weighting the outside foot, leaning toward the direction that you’re turning,” Henderson says.  Release the brakes and start the turn by leaning the bike—not your body—into the turn. This can be accomplished by pushing down lightly with your inside hand; some call this countersteering. If the turn is tight or your speed increases, lean the bike farther in, and vice versa. “Cornering is not turning the handlebars,” Henderson says “Unless you’re going extremely slow or on a tricycle, you’re not really turning like that. Yes, you can move your handlebars a little bit, but cornering and turning is more from actually shifting body weight.” Aim for the Inside Carve a smooth arc through the apex, or the inside, of the turn. Start at the outside of the corner, near the centerline. Aim toward the inside of the turn, then exit as far to the outside as possible. Don’t cross the double yellow line if you’re on the road. “To carry the most speed, think of: outside setup, tight through the apex of the turn, and then come back to the outside to reduce the radius of the turn...outside, inside, outside,” Henderson says. “So you’re using the most amount of the road from the lateral sense. That way, you’re reducing the degree of the turning radius.” Trevor Raab As you come out of the turn, gradually straighten the bike until it’s upright, then start to pedal again. If you’re on a winding road or a switchback road going from left to right, you have to think about setting up one turn to the next, Henderson says. “With speed, we have to set up earlier for consecutive turns.” Practice Makes Perfect  Now that you have these tips under your belt, it’s time to put them into action. Henderson suggests practicing on a softer surface like grass until you get the hang of it. You might not go as fast, but you can still practice leaning the bike and cornering without turning the handlebars. When you feel ready, start practicing on pavement. Kwik Goal Mini Cones Pack of 25 amazon.com $11.99 SHOP NOW In a parking lot, you can use water bottles or skills cones to set up a mini slalom course. “Start with a straight line and practice that, linking turns left to right,” Henderson says. “To make that more challenging, offset them so you have a more acute turn required for each one. And again, start slowly and progressively build speed.” As you get better, practice more challenging corners.  Once you’ve gotten the hang of that, there’s still more you could work on, especially if you’re interested in racing. Henderson recommends practicing these moves while following behind or next to another cyclist, and then in a larger group to get comfortable with people on either side of you. Trevor Raab When you’re riding in a group, chances are you’re not riding the optimal line through a corner. “You can’t just choose to take the fastest line, you have to follow what’s happening in front of you and also with regard to what is happening behind you. If you want to take your own line with speed, then go ahead off the front or drop off the back,” Henderson says. This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io