Title: Tips For Building a Custom Bike

Text: Stock bikes today are far better than they were 15 years ago, said Ian Buchanan, co-owner of Fit Werx, a highly-regarded bike shop with locations in three states. There is more variety of styles and higher-quality bikes available. A decade and a half ago, he said, “there were lots of people who really benefitted substantially from custom geometry, but there’s a lot more (stock fit) options now.” That said, Fit Werx still has a thriving business of custom bikes built from the frame up. And many cyclists prefer to start with a bare frame and build their own rigs, despite the added work and (sometimes) cost. Even big brands like Trek and Specialized offer a number of framesets for exactly that purpose. Why? Building your own, Buchanan says, “is like the difference between buying a prefabricated home and working with a designer to build a house that’s structured around your life.”  For some riders, addressing fit issues like old injuries can only be accomplished with true custom geometry from a small builder. For others, they prefer certain parts—brands or sizes—that are hard to find on stock bikes. “I’ve always built custom spec’d bikes,” said Ryan White, a senior apparel designer at Pactimo in Denver, who built up a warranty replacement Trek Checkpoint frame. “I’m particular about component choices.” Others need a particular bike for their particular riding style. Chad Frost, an aerospace engineer and avid cyclist from Sunnyvale, California, wanted a Specialized Sequoia with 650b wheels, lower gearing for bikepacking, and a dynamo hub light. Specialized didn’t offer a build like that, but it did sell just the frameset. Finally, there’s the chance to build something truly unique, whether that’s as simple as a special bar tape, or as over-the-top as custom paint and bespoke saddle coverings. Of course, there are also drawbacks: Building your own bike can be more expensive than stock because bike makers, especially big ones, have economies of scale that individual consumers can not match. That’s especially true if you’re equipping a bike with mid-range parts. (There’s less or zero gap at the high-end of parts, said Buchanan, and savvy parts-hunting can actually save you money.) You may need patience to pull all the parts together, especially as COVID-19 has both boosted sales of cycling gear and strained the industry’s supply lines. And you’ll have to navigate the ever-more complex logistics of assembly like ensuring everything is compatible, especially if you’re doing the wrenching yourself. To help, we’ve put together a guide on how to build the custom bike of your dreams. Join Bicycling now for the latest advice and tips! How And Where To Start: The Frame Trevor Raab A built-from-frame bike spans a spectrum of options that ranges from working with a small builder on every last fully-custom detail, to direct-to-consumer brands and retailers that let you pick aspects such as color or parts from a small range of pre-set component choices. There are two broad options to start with: new and used frames or framesets. New offers you total control, like full-custom (think geometry and paint) from an individual builder like Mark Hester from Prova Cycles. Used is perfect for saving a bit of cash on a late-model frameset from The Pro’s Closet, for that special “one that got away” like a Pinarello Dogma with Team Sky graphics, or for vintage quests like a restored Cinelli Supercorsa through eBay or Steel Vintage, or other specialty shop. If you can’t view a used frame in person, request lots of photos and ask lots of questions. You’ll want to look for signs of corrosion or other damage, including repairs; you’ll want to know precise geometry dimensions for fit (including whether the seller is measuring seat tubes from center to center or center to top, for example); and you’ll need to know exact specs for features like bottom bracket shell width and type, seat tube diameter, axle spacing, and cable routing. Consider Working With a Bike Shop If you’re buying a new bike, you may want to work with a shop as a partner. Unless you know exactly what you want, a shop can be an essential guide, said Chad Nordwall, co-owner of Above Category Cycling in Sausalito, California. Above Category essentially does only custom bikes, and Nordwall views part of his role as helping potential customers sort out what they want. “[Custom] throws a lot of people off because they think, ‘I don’t know anything about this’,” he said. “But the point is, you go with someone who does, and that makes the experience better.” A good bike build starts with making sure you get the right size frame, and that’s where shops with experienced fitters excel. “People sometimes worry that if they need [fit] changes in the future, they’re locked into the bike,” said Buchanan. “But the truth is the opposite: A properly designed bike should put them in the middle of their fit range so that you should be able to make changes without pushing the bike outside its comfort zone,” for fit and handling. A shop can also help with personalization: the little details that make your bike yours. The Open U.P. road-gravel hybrid, for example, comes stock in green or blue; but you can also order a bare, ready-to-paint setup, which a shop can whisk off to a partner for the custom paint of your dreams. (Similarly, shops can also be invaluable resources for vintage frames that require restoration.) Want a one-off saddle covering like those from Busyman ’s Mick Peel? They’ll coordinate that, too. Shops that do lots of frame-up builds are expert at sourcing parts, in particular avoiding the compatibility pitfalls that strike even experienced home mechanics, and an expert, no-hassle assembly. In some cases, you’ll have to work with a shop at least to buy the frame: Prova Cycles, for instance, sells in the U.S. only through Above Category Cycling. Other builders may work direct with customers and provide their own fit process. Many builders, like Seven Cycles, Moots, and Parlee, sell framesets or complete bikes that give you some control over parts. And some online retailers, such as Competitive Cyclist, offer online fit guides and some level of parts customization as well. The Shopping Spree: Components Trevor Raab People who regularly build their own bikes up from the frame cite contact points as a key reason for doing so: There’s a particular saddle they love, a handlebar that fits them just right, or a stem that’s longer or shorter than what comes on stock bikes in their size. Some shops have saddle demo programs that let you try them out to find the perfect perch. (SportFit Lab, a specialty shop and fitter in Herndon, Virginia, has 90 different models in its program and has a generous shipping program for those who aren’t local, as well as demo credits for purchase.) In the old days, cyclists would obsessively mix and match drivetrain parts, said Nordwall. Certain exceptions aside, that’s not advisable anymore due to compatibility issues, nor is it necessary. “Just stick with one component brand,” he said. Shimano, Campagnolo, and SRAM all offer broad gearing ranges for any riding style and terrain. Trevor Raab Trevor Raab Because of modern e-tailing, you can almost always find parts online for less than what a shop charges. It may require a hunt, so consider where you want to spend your time. And take care with overseas sellers: Shipping and customs charges aren’t always obvious and can be significant, and returns are far more difficult. If you’re restoring a vintage bike, eBay is the best marketplace for old pasrts, but it will require patience. The biggest problem you’ll face is compatibility—less between the components themselves if you stick to one brand, and more with the frame. There are, by our count, at least 10 different bottom bracket “standards” currently on the market, for instance. Does the frame have cable guides that fit the parts you want to put on it? You’ll have to make sure the wheelset you pick is available with the proper freehub (Shimano HG or Micro Spline or SRAM XDR, for example). “People don’t necessarily understand that you can’t mix wheels (on some newer gravel bikes) because there’s different axle spacing involved,” said Buchanan. This is another place where a shop can help: consistency. The industry moves fast and shops are always working to keep up, but with shops, “you know the equipment you’re buying is through authorized distribution, and we include a lot of the labor to get it on the road,” said Buchanan. Our Favorite Bike Repair Stands Feedback Sports Sprint Repair Stand Feedback Sports amazon.com $462.17 SHOP NOW Light, stable, and very compact when folded. Best Value Bike Hand Cycle Pro Repair Stand $119.99 Buy Now Best for light jobs. Heavy-duty version available for $168. Lightest Race Stand Topeak Prepstand X $270.00 Buy Now Small for travel, sturdy for everyday use (and our staff mechanic’s favorite). Sturdiest Construction Park Tool PCS-10.2 Home Mechanic Stand $229.95 Buy Now A proven design that holds 80-pound bikes. Building It Up Trevor Raab Once you’ve got everything together, you’ve got to put it together. A shop is the easiest and most reliable path to getting a smooth, expert build. But many people said they prefer to assemble the bike themselves, for the experience and to get to know their machines better. Before you jump in, have a clear-eyed assessment of what’s involved and whether you want to handle all or even most of it. Modern, high-end bikes have some fantastic technology, but they’re not the easiest to work on. “Freaking horrible, man!” is how Nordwall describes the process, adding that Above Category Cycling’s mechanic will spend between four to eight hours on a build. At Fit Werx, Buchanan estimates that some bikes with intricate cable routing and heavy integration can take up to 15 hours of time—and that’s for a pro wrench who is familiar with the process. Fit Werx used to hire seasonal mechanics, but, said Buchanan, “I can’t do that anymore because the products we sell have changed so much that people can’t stay on top of it if they’re not here full-time.” Trevor Raab Trevor Raab Even if you commit to building yourself, you may want to have a shop handle specific aspects like frame prep: most home mechanics don’t have a tap-and-die set for chasing bottom bracket threads or facing shells, for instance. And speaking of tools, be prepared to buy a few specialized ones. Here’s a sampling of tools that you may need that likely aren’t on your pegboard: for bottom bracket and headset ($35-$75, plus extra drifts if necessary) ($20 and up) and ($31) Disc-brake bleed kit for DOT or mineral oil ($28-$77) or ($28-$77) for internal cables ($65) ($96) ($43) Since many of these tools get used infrequently, it may be best for you to have a shop do part of the frame prep and build. But also make sure that you do have specific tools you will use more often, like bottom bracket cup tools and a good torque wrench. Before you get underway, you’ll also want to familiarize yourself with installation instructions. Don’t assume that because you know how to adjust cable-activated shifting in general that you know how specific systems work; Shimano, SRAM, and Campagnolo all have subtly different approaches for front derailleurs. The best resources are often how-to videos. SRAM and Campagnolo have good YouTube tech channels with a large catalog of instructional videos, but Shimano, surprisingly, does not offer similar resources. The best source for Shimano how-tos (and lots of other info) is the trusted Park Tool video series, available on YouTube or directly on the Park Tool website. For Shimano Di2 systems specifically, an excellent resource is the independent site Better Shifting. The Final Result Trevor Raab Expect frustration and setbacks. As with any home improvement project (and a new bike does make a home nicer), expect repeated trips to the shop to buy small things you forgot or missed. Proceed carefully and double-check any step you’re not sure of; it’s far better to take longer and do it right than to risk ruining a part (or a frame). Building a bike from the frame up isn’t like just buying a complete, stock bike. It’s a process and a journey. But it’s one that fans say is worth it, and not because they save money. They cite the mechanical knowledge gained by sourcing parts and building the bike; they get a bike that truly fits them and their physiological quirks or riding habits; and they get a bike that’s deeply personal, that reflects them in a way that no stock bike can. But be warned, people who’ve built a bike tend to respond in one of two binary ways: Either it’s an awful experience they’ll never do again, or they get bit by the builder bug, building multiple bikes, for themselves, family, and friends. For Marco Soldano, a San Jose-based engineer and USA Cycling certified coach who hasn’t bought a stock bike in 15 years, the appeal is practical, but not only that. “There is one magical moment, when a bunch of components, wheels, and frame ‘become’ a bike, and you take a spin down the driveway,” Soldano says. “That’s the moment the bike gets its soul.” This content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io