Title: Mercedes-AMG Project One spied on the 'Ring

Text: One of motoring’s longest gestations has taken another step forward, with Mercedes-AMG putting its Project One hypercar through its paces on the Nurburgring some nearly four years after it was first revealed back in 2017. But while the package hasn’t changed – it will still feature a road-going version of the F1 car’s engine – AMG’s upper management and product direction certainly has, making it critical to get out to customers as quickly as possible. It hasn’t had the easiest pathway through development, either, with it only reaching body-on prototyping in August last year. This has been for a multitude of reasons, not least the decision to repurpose a highly strung Formula 1 race engine as a reliable road-going powertrain. To help hone the driving experience though, AMG says it will draft in Lewis Hamilton for testing sessions in the latest prototype. > Mercedes-AMG E Performance plug-in powertrains revealed – it’s official, next C63 to go four-cylinder As well as being a halo for AMG, Project One was also a pet project of former AMG boss Tobias Moers. He has since not just left the company, but has taken up a position at the head of Aston Martin, which is itself in the final stages of developing the Project One’s chief rival, the Valkyrie. In addition to this irony, the two near-1000bhp hypercars now don’t just have each other to worry about either, as Gordon Murray has also entered the fold with the GMA T.50. It may be lacking the headline figures of the AMG and Aston Martin, but the T.50 has its own aces to play in this three-way battle. It’s going to be quite the triple-test. Drivetrain What marks out the One from hypercars before it is the drivetrain. Be in no doubt that the ‘Formula 1 car for the road’ tagline isn’t just marketing guff. It’s a fact. One Mercedes has been keen to emphasise in the build-up to the car’s arrival. Aft of the passenger cell you’ll find the EQ POWER+ powertrain that has propelled Mercedes to four consecutive constructors and drivers’ championships. Speaking about this application of the Formula 1 powertrain, Mercedes-AMG CEO, Tobias Moers said, ‘we are the first to make Formula 1 technology roadworthy.’ As you might expect, all-wheel drive plays a part, delivered and intelligently vectored by an electric motor in each front wheel. But let’s start with the game changer at the back. As with the current Mercedes F1 car, the rear wheels are driven by a turbocharged 1.6-litre petrol V6 with direct injection and, for the sake of longevity, an 11,000rpm red line - dialled down from the 13,500rpm Lewis has to play with but still vaguely nuts compared with anything even the driver of the most hyperactive hypercar is used to. Final figures are still yet to be disclosed, but AMG has revealed that output will come to in excess of 1000hp, pushing it to a top speed of over 217mph. 23 A strategically tamed WO8 motor, then? Not exactly. AMG calls it a ‘bespoke unit’ that marries elements from WO6, WO7 and WO8. The engineering is exactly the same, though. Air is fed into the engine by a combined mechanical and electrically-driven turbocharging system with the exhaust turbine located near the exhaust and the compressor near the roof-mounted air intake. They’re joined by a long shaft to which is connected an 80 kW electric motor. This primes the turbocharger to eliminate lag and, according to AMG, give the V6 faster responses than a naturally-aspirated V8. The electric motor also recovers waste exhaust energy which can then be used to replenish the hybrid battery block or directly drive the MGUK. MGUK? It stands for Motor Generator Unit Kinetic, another electric motor positioned on the side of the crankcase and directly connected to the crankshaft. It can either drive the crankshaft, adding 120 kW to the power tally, or be driven by it. AMG claims that the combined petrol-electric elements working as a complete unit achieve an unprecedented thermal efficiency of around 40 per cent against a norm of 30-32 per cent. It’s as close as you’ll get to guilt-free 1000hp+ motoring. Sitting behind the engine is an all-new 8-speed, single clutch, transmission and, above that, the exhaust system which, unlike the F1 version, has a silencer and catalytic converter but retains the single tailpipe. Each of the electric motors at the front axle delivers 120 kW, and each has a tiny gearbox to permit torque vectoring. The battery cells, their configuration, connectors and direct cell liquid cooling are all a direct lift from F1. However, the 800 volt high voltage system (contained in two battery housings on each side of the car) has four times the capacity used in F1. The higher voltage level reduces voltage losses, not least in the cables. It also allows significantly shorter changing times with a constant current level. The One’s driving programs will even have an all-electric mode with just the front axle driven, giving a range of up to 25km. The most extreme ‘dynamic’ mode, on the other hand, will apparently adopt settings used in F1 to achieve the best possible lap times in qualifying. 23 Not strictly up for discussion on this ‘powertrain reveal’ but the suspension system will have race car style, horizontally packaged, pushrod dampers, a carbon tub, carbon ceramic brakes and, of course, active aero. But perhaps most remarkably of all, AMG reckons One owners will be able to drive their cars for 50,000km rather than after a brisk trip around the houses in Monaco before the first ‘revision’ is needed, which means removing the engine and transmission and taking them apart to see what’s been going on, just like a race car. But given the evidence that hypercars tend to accumulate quickly-covered miles at a leisurely rate, the 50k day can probably be put off for a couple of years at least. So thank goodness for the stress-easing effect of that 11,000rpm red line. Ola Källenius told our sister title Auto Express Mercedes-AMG would make 'Between 200 to 300' - a number that Mercedes-AMG CEO Tobias Moers has now revealed to be 275 units (see below). Moers has also now confirmed that the company has more than 1000 people interested in the car, effectively confirming the market for what could be one of the most dramatic hypercars ever. Active Aerodynamics As part of the drip-feed of information on the One over the last three years, Mercedes-AMG released images of the car displaying its active aerodynamic functions, the most dramatic of which were the vents above the front wheels: four panels on each side of the car’s front clam hinge upwards to create what look like gills behind the headlights. There’s some visible active aero at the back too, thanks to a two-piece wing. One element stretches across the entire width of the car’s rear, while the centre section – as wide as the car’s carbonfibre engine cover – is able to rise independently of the main wing. A large diffuser wraps around the entire rear of the car and up the sides to further aid downforce. The rest of the car’s rear remains largely open, to dissipate as much heat as possible. 23 Earlier shots showed the One testing at the Millbrook facility in Bedfordshire – not a surprising location as it’s not far from Mercedes-Petronas’s development HQ in Brackley or its high-performance powertrain facility in Brixworth. Both departments are used to working on Mercedes’ Formula 1 cars, and the One will use the same engine and hybrid system that was originally developed for the race car.