Title: The 100 Best Android Apps for 2021

Text: Android phones and tablets are marvelous handheld devices that are capable of so much more than snapping selfies and posting social media updates. With the right app, you can transform your Android devices into a movie theater, graphic design canvas, mobile workstation, or nearly anything else designed for work or play. Downloading the apps is easy; finding them is the challenge. That's why we've stepped in to offer a helping hand. These 100 recommended apps are organized into 13 categories, including music, productivity, security, and utilities, so it's easy to find ones that suit your mood. Need an entertaining streaming video service? There's an app for that. In search of a dependable word processor that'll keep you productive while on the go? There's an app for that, too. Note that we don't include any games in this roundup: For those, check out our separate list of the best Android games. If this is your first time with an Android device, 100 apps might be overwhelming. If so, take a look at our list of 10 must-have Android apps to cover the basics. If your wallet is feeling a little light, know that many of the entries in both lists are free. Each recommended app is excellent in its own way. Taken together, our collection is a snapshot of the Google Play Store's best apps at the time of writing. So explore and enjoy. We didn't forget about iPhone and iPad users. For the iOS faithful, check out our roundups of the best iPhone apps and the best iPad apps. Browsers Brave Privacy Browser Brave Privacy Browser offers many features aimed at protecting your security and privacy on the web. For instance, it includes built-in blockers for ads, pop-ups, scripts, and third-party cookies. It even implements the HTTPS Everywhere extension, so you can ensure that your connections to sites are secure. The lightweight, minimal design looks great, too. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Firefox 4.5 Firefox is lickety-split fast, and has a clean design that is a joy to use. Mozilla makes a big point about how it doesn't collect your data, and we are pleased to see that the app comes with a full complement of security settings—including an option to protect your information from advertisers and a private browsing mode. Like the desktop version, Firefox for mobile has a robust plug-in selection, excellent tab management, and a dynamic start page for bookmarks and the latest headlines. You can even sync settings, history, and tabs with the desktop variant MSRP Free MSRP Free Mozilla Firefox Review Microsoft Edge Microsoft Edge lets you easily sync web pages, bookmarks, and browsing history between your Android device and the Edge browser on your desktop. Top features of the mobile browser include an integrated reading view, news ratings (handled by NewsGuard), and a content blocker (powered by Adblock Plus). You can search with Bing using your voice or by selecting a photo, as well as earn points via the Microsoft Rewards program. Both Microsoft Edge's dark and light themes look elegant and are easy to navigate. Free at Google Play See It Tor Browser 3.5 Privacy stalwarts, rejoice! Tor now has an official (and modern-looking) Android app. The Tor project operates under the principle that "internet users should have private access to an uncensored web." Make sure to read the overview of how Tor works before you start using it, as it addresses specific types of privacy threats (and does so very well). The Tor browser may perform more slowly than other browsers, given its complicated inner workings, but that drawback should be negligible for the users who appreciate and rely on its protections. MSRP Free MSRP Free Tor Browser Review Communication Language Learners Duolingo 5.0 If you're looking to learn another language, Duolingo gamifies language learning with bite-sized lessons and a friendly interface. Starting with simple vocabulary and building from there, Duolingo is your guide to learning a new language or brushing up on one you already know. The more you use the app, the more you unlock and—with practice—the more you learn. This free app currently supports Danish, Dutch, French, German, Irish, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish. Or more practical choices, like Esperanto and Klingon. MSRP Free MSRP Free Duolingo Review Facebook Messenger 5.0 The problem with most mobile messengers is convincing your friends to sign up. That said, there's a good chance that most people you know are already on Facebook. This is handy, because the Facebook Messenger app is fantastic. It's simple, clean, and easily handles voice and video calling. Check out our feature on Facebook Messenger to discover its other capabilities. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Facebook Messenger (for Android) Review Google Translate Many people fear not being unable to communicate with people from another country while traveling. Google Translate takes a bit of the edge off, quickly translating either written text or spoken words. You can even use the app to do the speaking for you, and input text through your camera or handwriting. The app can translate 103 languages with a data connection and 52 when you're offline. It can't handle Tamarian, but it's sure to be a handy tool here on Earth. Another option is Microsoft Translator, which offers 60 offline languages, travel phrasebooks, a real-time conversation mode, and actually translates Klingon. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It LinkedIn 4.0 Most people are probably familiar with LinkedIn as a service only visited in times of desperation—after being laid off, maybe, or after a day in the office so bad that you're just not going to take it anymore. The LinkedIn app aims, however, to be a companion to the LinkedIn web service that you check every day. Sure, there's the all-important profile pages showing off your work experience, and the handy tools for networking, but the service now includes visitor metrics and a newsfeed for a decidedly more social feel. It's sometimes the easiest way to reach out and make a business connection. It's like Facebook for grown-ups. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It LinkedIn (for Android) Review Snapchat 4.0 With Snapchat, you quickly snap and exchange photos with one or several friends. The app also supports video snaps, as well as voice and video calling. The catch is that whatever you post vanishes after a day. It's just a fun and ephemeral way to share the world around you. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Snapchat (for Android) Review Signal There are many apps that pay lip service to security and privacy, but Signal was built from the ground up with the goal of letting people easily communicate without having to worry about being overheard. The Signal app is a complete phone and SMS client replacement (though it works just fine as a standalone app, too) for sending and receiving encrypted calls and messages. The app's look and feel continues to improve, too. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Textra Textra is an excellent alternative to Messages on Android. The app includes numerous customization options that you won't find with the stock messaging app, including custom contact colors, text bubble styles, and notification icons. Additionally, you get extra features such as text scheduling, the ability to blacklist contacts, and the option to rename group conversations. Textra also has excellent light and dark modes. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It WhatsApp 3.5 In a world rife with messenger apps, WhatsApp is among the most successful, boasting an enormous and dedicated user base. Add to that an integrated web version that lets users take their chats to the desktop. This Facebook-owned app is bolstered by encrypted messaging provided by the minds behind Signal. It might just be the largest secure messaging service out there. $0.00 at Google Play See It WhatsApp Messenger (for Android) Review Your Phone Companion Microsoft's Your Phone Companion app lets you link your Android phone and text from your Windows 10 PC. As a bonus, you can also quickly access photos from your camera, as well as manage your device notifications. The app setup is easy, and it's certainly more comfortable to type out longer responses on a physical keyboard than craft a message on your phone. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Food Blue Apron 4.5 If you don't want to think about buying ingredients, but still want to cook, Blue Apron is an excellent option. With reliable deliveries and great meals to choose from, this food delivery service lets you skip the trip to the grocery store. The sleek mobile app allows you to manage your account, schedule your deliveries, and save any recipes you want to revisit. Starts at $7.49 Starts at $7.49 $39.94 2-Person Plan at Blue Apron See It Blue Apron Meal Delivery Service Review Cookpad Cookpad connects you with a vibrant array of recipes. Easily add favorite recipes, manage shopping lists, and find new recipes you'll love based on those you already like. Once you start using it, you'll have one less excuse to eat out. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Seamless Remember the bad old days of ordering food? You needed takeout menus, knowledge of the terrain ("will they even deliver out here?"), cash, and faith that the person jotting down your order got it right. Seamless takes care of all that, even letting you pay via credit card from your Android. The only drawback? It's not available in every city (or even every state), though it has expanded its range dramatically since it was first included on this list. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Untappd Untappd helps you record each brew you try along with a rating and tasting notes. Think of it as Swarm for beer! No more staring at a tap list, trying to remember which ones you've had before. The app also has a vibrant community of beer drinkers that can point you toward new discoveries and an extensive list of beers. It's also a handy way to find your favorite brew near your current location. While it's not perfect, it can change the way you think of beer. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Yelp 4.0 It pays to be a little skeptical of crowd-sourced reviews, but Yelp tells you a lot more than just what people thought of a bar, restaurant, or just about any other place where you spend money. Many locations list hours of operation, contact information, and menus, making it easy to find the perfect spot in your neighborhood or a new city. MSRP Free MSRP Free Yelp (for Android) Review Health & Fitness Adidas Running by Runtastic The Adidas Running app, formerly called Runtastic PRO, can do much more than just track your favorite running routes. This excellent fitness app keeps track of all sorts of useful data and can return information-rich maps to help you plan future outings. Use it for cycling, hiking, and walking, too. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Clue Menstruators the world over will rejoice over Clue, a simple app with a beautiful design for tracking your period and predicting when the next will occur. Using the data you enter about your cycle—and other factors—you can use Clue to plan ahead, whether it's for pregnancy or just to keep ahead of your cycle. Reminders and a handy calendar tool can help take the guesswork out of life. Best of all, it's totally gender-neutral, and not the expected pink. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Eve Tracking your period isn't just about knowing the cycle, but also the other factors surrounding it. Eve by Glow lets you track physical and emotional states, which can lead to some important insights when you take the time to interpret your own data. Eve also boasts a vibrant community and a wealth of information about sexual health built right in. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Fitbit You might know Fitbit from its popular fitness trackers, but the app that powers those devices works well on its own, too. Using your just your smartphone (assuming you meet the minimum hardware requirements), this fitness app can count steps and log activities to help you achieve daily goals. There are also social features, so you can compete against your friends. It's a must-have (really, you must have it) for Fitbit users, but also a smart choice for anyone looking to be more active. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It MyFitnessPal This calorie counter and exercise tracker aims to help you lose weight the old-fashioned way—expending more calories than you take in. With its smart design and an extensive library of foods, it makes quickly logging the calories you take in and what you burn while exercising a snap. A barcode scanner makes it even easier to log that post-workout snack. This fitness app also plays nice with other such apps, so your data won't be tied up in just one place. MyFitnessPal won't give you a whole workout regimen, but it can make you more aware of your habits. PCMag has a full review of MyFitnessPal for the iPhone. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Zocdoc Zocdoc makes it easy to research nearby doctors on your health insurance plan and book appointments from your phone. When you first sign up for the app, you can enter your insurance information manually or scan your card to get started. The app itself looks slick too, with a modern, bright design that makes the experience of scheduling visits less stressful. Zocdoc even saves your history of appointments and makes recommendations for future ones, so you can stay on top of your health history. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Music & Podcasts Anchor 3.5 If you want to record your own podcast, Anchor is likely one of the easiest ways to do it. This app lets you record by yourself or with friends and build out entire podcast episodes entirely from your phone. Anchor even implements some basic audio editing tools for perfecting each clip in the app. Recently, the service announced a monetization program for creators on the platform. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Anchor Review Bandcamp 3.0 Filled with both up-and-coming and established acts, Bandcamp is one of the most exciting music marketplaces there is. The app was initially built around streaming songs you'd already purchased on Bandcamp, but now it's a one-stop-shop for digital and physical band merch. If you want to keep your finger on the pulse of music, this is an essential app. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Bandcamp (for Android) Review BlackPlayer Streaming services are all the rage, but if you still keep music locally, BlackPlayer is worth your attention. We particularly like the Discover option, which shuffles through 10-second previews of seldom-played tracks in your library continuously, until you decide on what to listen to next. There's also a built-in tag editor and a ton of customization options for button styles, fonts, themes, and now playing notifications. $3.59 at Google Play See It LiveXLive 4.5 While Pandora may have introduced the world to streaming radio, LiveXLive has refined it. You can listen to what the service thinks you'll like, or try out one of its human-curated channels and playlists. It also has hyper-specific playlists that appeal to particular tastes and moods, such as Yacht Rock. If you aren't ready to subscribe to LiveXLive quite yet, you can try out its free version. MSRP $9.99 MSRP $9.99 Free at Google Play See It LiveXLive Powered by Slacker Review Pocket Casts 4.5 Android has struggled with podcasts (they don't call 'em "Droidcasts," after all), but Pocket Casts is here to help. This highly customizable app is great for chilling out with an episode of your favorite casts, and it can also sync among different devices so that you can pick up right where you left off. Time to start listening. MSRP $3.99 MSRP $3.99 Free at Google Play See It Pocket Casts (for Android) Review Songkick 4.0 Songkick is the bridge between the music in your digital collection and concerts in your area. Once installed, Songkick scans your device for tunes and then lets you see when and where your favorite artists are playing. If you see a show you're interested in, you can also purchase tickets all from within the app. Add multiple locations to Songkick to catch concerts when you're on the road. MSRP Free MSRP Free Songkick Review Spotify 4.5 With its huge inventory of music, Spotify has become a mainstay for free, legal music streaming. You can shuffle through smartly selected songs, find your favorite albums, or explore one of the service's excellent playlists. Close ties with artists means that new tracks are sometimes available the same day they hit the shelves in record shops. Those still exist, right? Spotify also offers a limited free version. Per Month, Starts at $9.99 Per Month, Starts at $9.99 $9.99 at Spotify See It Spotify Review Stitcher Though its interface is a bit tricky, Stitcher connects you with just about every podcast out there. Podcasts are organized by subject, or you can just search for a familiar title. Shows can, in turn, be organized into playlists for a continuous stream. Once you've exhausted all your favorites, let Stitcher recommend something new. With a special emphasis on sources like NPR, CNN, and ESPN, Stitcher has a little bit of everything. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Photography Adobe Lightroom 3.5 Adobe Lightroom is a powerful photo-editing app for mobile that retains many of the features from its desktop counterparts, Lightroom, which earned a three-and-a-half star rating, and Lightroom Classic, a five-star Editors' Choice winner. Some of its standout tools include raw camera file profiles, noise reduction, profile-based lens corrections, and advanced color and lighting sliders. Lightroom also notably syncs all these edits between the mobile and desktop apps. MSRP $9.99 MSRP $9.99 $9.99 Per Month at Adobe See It Adobe Lightroom Review Flickr 3.5 Remember Flickr? The venerable photo-sharing service is an Editors' Choice web service, and the Android app has a lot to recommend it, too. It's more about the art of photography than the meme- and selfie-packed Instagram. Offering a well-designed interface and excellent photo and video editing tools, Flickr is more valuable than ever. Plus, the app connects you to the vibrant community of photographers on the service. Best of all, it can automatically back up photos from your phone. Free users can upload up to 1,000 photos and a $50 per year subscription gets you unlimited online photo storage. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Flickr (for Android) Review Google Photos 4.0 Google Photos puts the search giant's powerful (and sometimes creepy) image magic into your phone. It can identify faces, even as they age over the decades, as well as animals, places, or objects. You can also search for photos from specific dates or locations. The impressive built-in Assistant can detect clutter or even create collages or animations on its own. The app is rounded out with editing tools and unlimited cloud storage if you make some minor compromises on upload quality. Google Photos also extends to photo prints; you can digitize physical photos with the built-in Photo Scan or even order a custom photo book. The companion Google Lens app can even report back information related to your images or photos by scanning them. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Photos See It Google Photos Review Instagram 4.5 It seems like just yesterday that Facebook-owned Instagram was adding video. Then direct messaging. Then advanced photo editing put it on par with Photoshop Express for image correction and manipulation. Instagram Stories is now far more popular than Snapchat's similar feature. And anti-bullying features should make it more palatable for some. With a clean, minimalist interface, Instagram is the current king of social photo apps. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Instagram (for Android) Review PicsArt Photo Studio 4.0 With tons of effects, controls over layers, drawing tools, and collages, PicsArt Photo Studio can contend with Photoshop and is one of the best photo editing apps for Android. If you think it's just a lowly Instagram clone, you're wrong. When you're looking to take your smartphone snapshots to the next level, seek out this app. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It PicsArt Photo Studio (for Android) Review Snapseed 4.0 Don't get us wrong, some of us love Instagram. But if you want more control than Instagram affords, try Google-owned Snapseed. This app straddles the line between full-fledged image editor and filter app, all in a sleek and attractive package. Best of all is the amount of control it gives you over how filters and effects are applied to your images. It even lets you make non-destructible edits to raw camera files and make adjustments to exposure and detail levels. Free at Google Play See It Snapseed (for Android) Review Productivity Asana 4.5 Asana is the 800-pound gorilla of task management for teams, dwarfing other popular services like the capable Trello. Asana is all about workflows and checkbox tasks that can be assigned to individuals. The Android app lets you take your tasks on the go and offline, syncing your progress when you're back on the network. It's a powerful tool with an excellent interface, and new features are added regularly. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Asana See It Asana Review Doodle 4.5 The hardest part of scheduling a meeting is getting everyone to agree. Jeff is free Monday and Wednesday. Jill is available Monday, but not Tuesday. And the other dozen people have their own schedules to contend with. Doodle lets you suggest times, and then see which work best for everyone. It's an invaluable planning tool. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Doodle (for Android) Review Evernote 4.0 Once you start using Evernote, this note-taking app becomes a powerful tool for organizing just about everything. Notes can be anything—text, images, audio, or a mix—and are organized into notebooks. One of its killer features is optical character recognition, which makes the text in images searchable. Cloud-storage makes it the perfect tool for organizing the little pieces of a project into a finished draft. MSRP Free MSRP Free $0.00 at Evernote See It Evernote Review Fax.Plus 4.0 Faxing isn't dead quite yet, but fax machines can safely be left behind thanks to online fax services. Fax.Plus's app is well designed and easy to use. It notably offers a digital signature tool and a contact manager. We like how mobile fax apps allow users to snap a picture of an attachment, attach a fax cover sheet, and send a fax off to a recipient in a few quick actions. Fax.Plus makes this process seamless. Per Month, Starts at $5.99 Per Month, Starts at $5.99 5.99 Per Month at FAX.PLUS See It Fax.Plus Review IFTTT 4.0 IFTTT, which stands for "if this, then that," helps you create custom automations between various online services and devices without any coding experience. The mobile app makes it simple to set up these Applets (previously called recipes) on your own or implement any of the community-created ones. IFTTT is particularly great for controlling smart home devices. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It IFTTT Review Khan Academy 4.5 Avoid paying for expensive textbooks and use Khan Academy instead. With lessons and videos for Arts & Humanities, Computing, Economics & Finance, Math, and more, there's no shortage of topics you can learn or review. The app is easy to use, and you can resume lessons wherever you sign in to your account. MSRP Free MSRP Free Khan Academy Review Microsoft Word Microsoft Word is, simply put, the alpha and omega of word processing, and one of the key apps in Microsoft Office 365. You'll find it on every kind of computer in every kind of setting, and now it's available for free on Android. Word plugs into Microsoft's cloud infrastructure to keep your documents in order, but its main selling point is that this really is Word. What you make on your phone will look exactly the same on the desktop. For the worker on the go, it's essential. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Mint 5.0 Mint is a fantastic online service to keep track of your finances, and it really shines on Android. Once you've entered all your information, you can easily check up on your finances on the fly. Mint keeps you on track for your goals and a new bill paying feature makes sure that you never miss a payment. Be sure to try out the app's excellent widgets, too. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Mint.com See It Mint.com Review Nine Email Nine is a very reliable email client designed to work with all of your accounts. The clean interface and the optional conversation view make reading and replying to email intuitive. One of the coolest features is the ability to customize the notification actions, including an incredibly useful "Mark as read" option. It isn't cheap, but it's only a one-time $14.99 charge for a much-improved email experience that also integrates calendar, contacts, notes, and tasks functionality. Free at Google Play See It Slack 4.5 Slack has gone from the new hotness, to controversial productivity tool, to essential office tool faster than you can say "hot take." With a familiar, instant messenger feel, it's easy to get started with Slack. But the service became popular because of its wealth of advanced features, like customizable alerts and a Do Not Disturb function. You can even host VoIP calls through Slack with your coworkers. A free account will get you started, but a monthly fee unlocks even better search tools. And be sure to install the Giphy plugin for maximum productivity. MSRP $8.00 MSRP $8.00 Visit Site at Slack See It Slack Review Todoist 5.0 If you like to keep your life organized with various to-do lists, then you definitely need to download Todoist. This app lets you keep track of the tasks you need to get done; you can assign them different priorities based on their overall importance or organize them across different projects. It also has a functional, clean design and works across many different platforms. Anyone can get started for free, but seriously organized individuals should upgrade to the $28.99 per year premium plan to set up task labels and reminders, upload files, and view productivity charts. Per Month, Starts at $4.00 Per Month, Starts at $4.00 $3 Per Month at Todoist See It Todoist Review TurboTax Tax Return App Everyone needs to file their taxes every year. Most people will probably have an easier time using dedicated tax software (and some might still enjoy preparing them by hand), but more ambitions filers or those with simple tax returns can get away with using a mobile app. Intuit's TurboTax Tax Return App is the best one we reviewed this year. Among its top features are an excellent user interface, support for all major tax forms, and innovative help options. If you get stuck at any point, you can just open up the Virtual Assistant, which keeps a running dialogue of the help topics you searched for, or use SmartLook to connect to a tax expert via video chat. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Reading & News Calibre Companion Calibre is the giant of ebook management, and this app is the perfect (ahem) companion for it. With just a few clicks, you can add any book from your computer to your eReader over USB or Wi-Fi. You can also store your ebooks on the cloud for easy access from wherever you are. What's so surprising is how well it works, and how easy it is to use. If you've got a lot of ebooks and are ready to cast off the shackles of Amazon, this is the app for you. $4.99 at Google Play See It ComiXology 4.5 The Amazon-owned ComiXology—the iTunes of digital comics—offers a near-perfect combination of store and comic book reader in its wonderful Comics app. The free app transforms your Android smartphone or tablet into a digital long box that houses and syncs your purchases across multiple devices. Even better, the new Comixology Unlimited service lets you devour an ever-expanding catalog of titles for just $5.99 per month. MSRP Free MSRP Free 5.99 Per Month for Subscription at ComiXology See It Comixology Review ESPN What is most impressive about the ESPN Android app is the sheer number of sports it covers. Everything from American football to Brazilian soccer to Indy 500 is available. For those unmissable games, you can set alerts and follow specific matches as they unfold. It also connects you to videos and news headlines, courtesy of the popular sports cable network. Also, check out ESPN's streaming service, ESPN+. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Feedly 4.0 Feedly takes the RSS feed into the modern age, and it's the easiest way to stay on top of all your favorites sources of news. You can view everything all at once if you want, but Feedly also lets you categorize your sources for focused reading or use its Today tab, which shows you the top stories from each category. Additionally, you can make Feedly look as simple as you wish, with minimalist text-only layouts. It's a great way to keep informed with the days' headlines and it offers useful integrations with other services as well. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Feedly Review Flipboard 4.5 With its slick, streamlined interface, Flipboard is one of the best apps for reading the news. With it, you browse the articles, videos, podcasts, and other media that matter most to you. The app's signature magazine-style interface lets you explore the day's headlines in a gorgeous environment. The Daily Edition feature gives you the most important news along with themed stories for each day of the week. Flipboard has been one of our top picks for years, and it's easy to see why. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Flipboard (for Android) Review Kindle The official Amazon Kindle app puts all of your existing Amazon ebook purchases at the tips of your fingers, and it gives you mobile access to the Kindle ebook store for impulse purchasing. Best of all, it syncs your notes, bookmarks, and where you left off among all your devices. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Libby by Overdrive The library is an often-overlooked public resource (and some are modernizing quickly), but OverDrive brings it back into the fold with the newly redesigned, Libby. Supported by over 30,000 libraries worldwide, the app lets you access your local library's array of available ebooks and audiobooks. Use it to download titles, place holds on titles not yet available, and consume your borrowed content. The only requirement is a library card (or its digital equivalent). MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Pocket Your bag of holding for internet content, Pocket saves articles, images, and videos for later reading. We especially like how it reformats articles for more comfortable reading on a mobile device, and how it syncs content to your tablet, phone, and online account. With the close integration between Pocket and the Android sharing tools, you can pocket just about anything from your phone. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It reddit is fun There's no shortage of Reddit apps on the Google Play store and choosing one over another ultimately comes down to preference, but reddit is fun (RIF) is a great option to try. The default view features a dense, text-heavy layout that puts the best (and worst) of Reddit front and center. There's both a light and dark theme and tons of layout content customization options to try out, even if you don't opt for the paid version. Better yet, there are no ads in either version or RIF and its overall performance is extremely quick. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Security Bitdefender Mobile Security 4.5 Need Android antivirus? It's hard to do better than Bitdefender. This app has received perfect scores from two independent research labs and scans your phone in mere seconds. It also includes excellent phishing protection, powerful antitheft tools, and Android Wear integration. MSRP $14.95 MSRP $14.95 $14.99 at Bitdefender See It Bitdefender Mobile Security and Antivirus (for Android) Review Bitwarden 4.0 As far as password managers go, Bitwarden checks all the right boxes. For instance, it supports two-factor authentication and secure password sharing. Bitwarden also implements a password generator and can help you import passwords from other services. Best of all, it's free and open-source. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Bitwarden Review Dashlane 4.0 You're terrible at passwords. Don't take it personally! Everyone is terrible at passwords. That's why we all need apps like Dashlane, which generate, save, and replay login credentials wherever they're needed. This smart, cross-platform service makes sure that your passwords, payment information, and other vital information is stored securely but never out of reach. MSRP $59.88 MSRP $59.88 $59.99 at Dashlane See It Dashlane Review LastPass 4.0 After a major overhaul to this powerful password manager, its appearance finally matches its performance. With LastPass, you can access your saved passwords, secure notes, and filled forms from your Android, and you can also create new ones that sync to all your devices. The new version of the app ingeniously melds the password manager with a built-in browser, putting the app's auto-login features at the forefront. Staying safe has never been easier. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free 30-Day Premium Trial at LastPass See It LastPass Review Kaspersky Mobile Antivirus Kaspersky for Android bundles on-demand malware scans and active web protection. Additionally, it implements a host of anti-theft features including remote locate, lock and wipe, as well as the ability to sound an alarm. You can even lock apps behind a PIN as an extra preventative measure in case your phone gets stolen. Although you need a paid Kaspersky Internet Security subscription to use all its features, some basic functionality is available for free. It's a top choice for Android antivirus apps. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Microsoft Authenticator SMS-based two-factor authentication is a common option, but when a service supports authentication apps, you should use that option. Microsoft Authenticator, like other time-based, one-time passcode authentication apps, lets you add accounts via a numeric or QR code and use the generated codes to log in to your services. Microsoft's app excels in its simplicity and extra features such as cloud backup (for when you are moving to a new device) and an optional app lock. You either enter the number displayed in the app, a two-digit number displayed by the service you're trying to authenticate or simply hit Allow in the popup notification. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Microsoft Store See It NordVPN 4.5 With NordVPN you can rest assured that no prying eyes will see your internet traffic. This app sports an excellent interface, a handy server selection tool, and hundreds of available VPN servers across the globe. NordVPN's signature feature is its assortment of specialized servers, which are optimized for activities like peer-to-peer downloading, video streaming, and access to Tor. MSRP $11.95 MSRP $11.95 $3.71 Per Month for 2 Year Plan (68% Off!) at NordVPN See It NordVPN (for Android) Review ProtonMail 4.0 Your Gmail inbox is not secure. Use ProtonMail instead. This encrypted email platform offers a range of pricing options, including a free tier, so you have no excuse not to join. Security and privacy features aside, ProtonMail works like any other email app. Make sure to also check out ProtonVPN for securing your network traffic; it's an Editors' Choice for free VPNs. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at ProtonMail See It ProtonMail Review Qustodio 4.0 Qustodio is an excellent parental control software that makes it easy to manage your child's mobile activity, especially with its well-designed companion app. Its best features are its browser-independent web content filters and ability to set device usage time limits. Rounding out its capabilities are location tracking, call and SMS logging, and mobile application blocking. Parents will also appreciate the instant device-locking and panic button options. MSRP $54.95 MSRP $54.95 $54.95 at Qustodio See It Qustodio Review TunnelBear VPN 4.0 VPNs are complex, but TunnelBear's VPN app isn't. TunnelBear graces the experience with bright colors, clear options, and, best of all, lots of friendly bears. This VPN undergoes annual third-party audits and offers top capabilities, including split tunneling on Android. TunnelBear offers a traffic-limited free version, too. MSRP $9.99 MSRP $9.99 $120 for Three-Year Plan at TunnelBear See It TunnelBear VPN Review Shopping Amazon 4.0 Amazon is the internet's marketplace; the one place where you can buy just about anything—and it's cheap too! On Android, two of our favorite features are the integrated Alexa voice commands and the photo search, which makes it easy to surreptitiously compare Amazon's prices to those of the brick and mortar stores it is killing. Amazon Video-related functionality has been moved over to a dedicated app, but all of its other consumer services, including Fresh and Restaurants, make an appearance. Prime members rejoice; there's never been a better way to stay connected with your Amazon lifestyle. MSRP Free MSRP Free $0.00 at Amazon See It Amazon (for Android) Review Google Pay 4.5 Google Pay has gone through many permutations over the years. Formerly known as Google Wallet, this person-to-person payment app from Google lets you easily send money without pesky cash or credit cards getting in the way. And in that role, it really excels. It's a strong alternative to our top choice, Venmo. MSRP Free MSRP Free Visit Site at Google Pay See It Google Pay Review Groupon The original deal locator for mobile, Groupon partners with businesses to offer low prices to a limited number of people for a limited time. While the value of Groupon's offerings is sometimes debatable, it offers a useful way to try a new restaurant or a totally new activity in your area. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Pinterest Pinterest is a social network of stuff, a place to "pin" things that interest you on themed boards. The Android app offers a great way to gather images from around the web for making lists or just collections of stuff that catch your eye. You could use it to help redecorate your living room or even to help you choose a tattoo artist. It easily integrates with your browser for fast pinning, and you can view the pins of others for added inspiration. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Rakuten Slice Package Tracker For all our technical savvy and disruptive startups, physical package delivery is still ecommerce's backbone. The Slice app automatically detects shipping details from your email and then tracks the packages for you. You can watch your precious commodities make their stately way to your doorstep, get alerts when they are delivered, and even receive warnings if they've been recalled or the price has dropped. In short, Slice is an online shopper's best friend. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Venmo There are many ways to pay for items with your phone, but Venmo has a smart mixture of clean design, ease of use, and social functions that give it an edge. Venmo doesn't do much, but it does let you easily send and receive payments from friends. And unlike other payment systems, Venmo has momentum. It's usually the app people ask about when the group is splitting up the check. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Travel Airbnb Airbnb should be your go-to app for finding rooms, apartments, homes, and other unique accommodations when traveling, if you don't want to go with a traditional hotel. The length of your stay need not be short-term either; some locations let you book a stay for several months, which may appeal to people working temporary jobs in new places. This travel app also highlights other experiences and restaurants, so you can find out about everything a locale offers. Free at Google Play See It Citymapper If you're traveling within a major metropolitan area via either public transportation or personal vehicle, Citymapper can plan all your trip details. It has transit information for dozens of major U.S. cities and international hotspots in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Further, it offers multiple transportation options for each city, so if you feel like taking the ferry to work one morning, there's nothing stopping you. Its top features include Commute, which lets you set up your daily travel to and from work, and an alert system that uses natural language to describe service delays or cancellations. Free at Google Play See It Eventbrite 3.5 If an event isn't being organized on Facebook, it's probably being done through Eventbrite. This service makes it easy to manage invites, RSVPs, and even ticket purchasing. Attendees get handy reminders about the events they planned to attend, organizers can see guest lists. We particularly like that Eventbrite can generate QR codes, making event check-in a breeze. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Eventbrite Review Google Maps 4.5 Google Maps has been your guide for years, and this excellent app just keeps getting better. With just a few taps, Google Maps tells you exactly how to get to your destination. It even supports walking, bicycle, and mass-transit directions, as well as Uber. The app's road knowledge is so keen that it can tell you which lane to be in while using turn-by-turn directions. And because this is Google, you can easily search for locations nearby. While true that this app is can't be uninstalled, it's still the best map app you'll find. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Google Maps (for Android) Review Overdrop Although a weather app's primary function is to give an accurate forecast, the presentation of that data is also important. Overdrop manages to accomplish both feats. The app includes helpful timeline-based graphs of temperature, wind, and rain predictions. Furthermore, you can change the units of measurement that the app displays as well as the weather provider. Your choices are Dark Sky or Weather Bit. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Transit 4.5 Who needs Uber when so many cities offer world-class public transit? The Transit app shows mass transit options—including buses, ferries, and trains—and the estimated time of arrival in 87 cities in North American, Europe, and Australia. Here in New York, it even tells you how many bikes are parked at local Citi Bike stands. This app keeps you in the know no matter where your travels take you. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Transit (for Android) Review Uber 4.0 Uber certainly has its problems. Between its questionable business tactics and its bad press, it's understandable to be suspicious. But the truth is that if you're looking for a way to get a ride, regardless of what city you're in, Uber will be there. You can even use it to order food in some areas. A great feature: You can request a wheelchair-accessible vehicle through Uber. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Uber (for Android) Review Weather Underground 4.5 Weather Underground combines a slick design with a focus on really useful weather information. We particularly like the ability to report weather conditions in your area and the extremely useful comparative forecasts that deftly show how conditions have changed since yesterday. With an accompanying set of useful widgets, it's the best weather app on Android. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Weather Underground (for Android) Review Utilities Dropbox 4.0 Dropbox pioneered the personal cloud service, where all your stuff would be available no matter what device you were using. On Android, it holds its own—even against the highly integrated Google Drive. Dropbox can also act as a seamless backup for your images, automatically uploading every photo to the cloud. It even includes some light image editing tools. If you're the type of person with lots of files already stored in Dropbox, this app is a must-have. MSRP $11.99 MSRP $11.99 Dropbox Review Grammarly Keyboard 4.0 Grammarly Keyboard corrects your grammar and spelling errors as you type. This keyboard is useful for everything from writing emails to composing social media posts to editing long-form documents. In use, Grammarly makes it easy to accept changes or access a card-based interface with more in-depth explanations of an error. It also offers a good number of visual customizations, such as a choice between a light or dark theme options and the keyboard height, as well as editing options, such as auto-correction and capitalization preferences. MSRP $29.95 MSRP $29.95 $29.95 at Grammarly See It Grammarly Review Microsoft OneDrive 5.0 Microsoft OneDrive is one of the best cloud storage services. With apps for all your devices, a clean interface, and excellent organization tools, it's a seamless way to keep your files with you wherever you go. Free users get 5GB of storage, but if you subscribe to Office 365, that limit goes up to 1TB. Microsoft's Personal Vault feature is built-in too, which helps you keep sensitive information behind an additional layer of security. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Microsoft Store See It Microsoft OneDrive Review Microsoft Launcher Microsoft Launcher can replace your Android phone's default launcher with a useful and customizable feed for quick access to recent apps, events, and frequently contacted people. You can view the main app list horizontally or vertically, and it includes an elegant alphabetical scrollbar for reaching apps quickly. Performance is just as smooth as the stock launcher, and it doesn't affect the use of Google Assistant, though of course, Cortana feels more at home as your voice assistant with this launcher. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Network Analyzer Network Analyzer makes it easy to view information about all of the Wi-Fi networks nearby. With a few taps, you can see the strength of networks in the area on a dynamic graph and view detailed information about your connection, such as your IPv4 Address, MAC Address, and Default Gateway IP. You can even run a network query from within the app; it lets you Ping an IP/Domain Name or even check the DNS Server settings. It's the perfect companion to our article on how to find your IP address. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Otter Voice Notes Otter is an innovative automatic recording and transcription service that works in real-time. Simply hit the record button during a conversation or meeting and Otter will produce a usable transcript a few minutes later. Otter's app is fluid, well-designed, and quick in operation, which makes it ideal for students and professionals who rely on their mobile devices for their work. The app also integrates other top-notch features such as cross-conversation speaker identification, excellent search tools, and in-app editing of transcripts. Free at Google Play See It Speedtest by Ookla Are you curious about the speed of your Internet connection? Ookla's Speedtest app makes it easy to test your latency as well as upload and download speeds. The app also keeps a log of test results so you can compare performance over time. IF you want, you can also export your results for further analysis. PCMag relies on Ookla's tools every year to pick the fastest ISPs. (Note: Ookla is owned by Ziff Davis, PCMag's publisher.) MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It Steam Link 3.5 Game-streaming platforms and subscriptions are all the rage right now, with big-name players such as Apple (Arcade), Google (Stadia), and Microsoft (xCloud) all recently launching some sort of effort. Steam Link (still in beta) allows you to play games from your Steam library directly from your Android phone, with the caveat that both your PC and mobile device must be connected to the same network. Check out our guide on how to stream games on your Android or iOS device. MSRP Free MSRP Free Visit Site at Steam See It Steam Link Review SwiftKey Keyboard 4.5 An impressive keyboard replacement, SwiftKey Keyboard suggests what it thinks is the most likely next word as you type. A pioneer of this technology, SwiftKey can speed up your typing by inserting whole words with a tap. The app also supports Swype-like input, over 100 languages, and 80 colorful themes. MSRP $3.99 MSRP $3.99 Free at Google Play See It SwiftKey Keyboard (for Android) Review Tasker Let's be honest: Tasker is very intimidating. But we recognize that this is perhaps the most powerful app available in Google Play. With it, you can script basic actions for your Android to perform when specific conditions are met—like flash the LED when you receive a text message. Learning to use something this powerful can be tricky, but the rewards seem worth it. $3.49 at Google Play See It Video Streaming fuboTV 4.0 fuboTV is a great option for any cord-cutting sports fans. This "sports-first, but not sports-only" service offers extensive live sports and entertainment content (85 channels) for all your devices. Whether you want to watch NFL games on Sunday, catch up an MLB game that aired during the day, or even stream a movie on-demand, fuboTV has you covered. fuboTV also offers excellent DVR capabilities and other features for watching events and shows you may have otherwise missed. In testing, streaming live and on-demand shows worked very well. Per Month, Starts at $59.99 Per Month, Starts at $59.99 7-Day Free Trial at fuboTV See It fuboTV Review Hulu 4.0 Hulu has long been a major player in the on-demand streaming space and its large library of current and previously aired shows offer appealing options for many. Hulu's live TV component is impressive as well, with a good range of channels and well-designed apps. Hulu's combination of on-demand and live TV services makes it an excellent value. Per Month, Starts at $5.99 Per Month, Starts at $5.99 $5.99 Per Month at Hulu See It Hulu Review Netflix Despite ups and downs in the quality of its library, Netflix dominates the world of streaming TV and movies. The service also creates its own—sometimes indispensable—content, including original comedies, cartoons, dramas, and documentaries. Some of the shows have become cultural phenomena, making Netflix a must-have. Shows such as Black Mirror, Stranger Things, and The Crown (the most expensive TV show ever made) are often the conversation topics of the day. You can even download select episodes to watch offline at your leisure. MSRP $7.99 MSRP $7.99 Free at Google Play See It Twitch 4.5 Twitch is the best way to watch people play games or pursue their creative hobbies on your mobile device. From eSports to cooking to music and more, there's likely some content on Twitch that everyone can enjoy. If you are feeling generous, you can also support your favorite creators directly from the app. Twitch Prime members can also claim free games and in-game loot each month. MSRP Free MSRP Free Twitch Prime Included with Prime Membership at Amazon See It Twitch Review Yahoo Sports With the Yahoo Sports app, you can watch live NFL games in your area as well as primetime matchups at no cost. The app is also useful for keeping up with the scores and highlights from other national sports leagues. A well-designed layout and solid performance in testing make it a worthwhile download. MSRP Free MSRP Free Free at Google Play See It