Title: Best Cushioned Running Shoes 2021

Text: Here’s the deal on cushioning: It’s very closely related to the perceived comfort of a shoe. Who doesn’t love that ahhh sensation of your first step in an exceptionally soft ride? The models here undeniably popped in the cushy department, more so than any other category, in both our lab and the wear-tests. Check out quick info below on five of the top shoes, then scroll deeper for longer reviews of these and other options you’ll want to sink your feet into, plus buying tips from our gear experts. Best for Stability Glycerin GTS 19 Brooks zappos.com $149.95 SHOP NOW Best for Long Runs Triumph 18 Saucony amazon.com $150.00 SHOP NOW Best for Uptempos Mach 4 Hoka One One hokaoneone.com $130.00 SHOP NOW Soft and Plush Fresh Foam 1080v11 New Balance newbalance.com $149.99 SHOP NOW Bouncy and Resilient UltraBoost 21 Adidas adidas.com $180.00 Pick Your Plush Shoe companies have developed signature foams that not only enhance softness but also put a little more spring into your step. For instance, Brooks’s DNA Loft—the plushest iteration of the brand’s foam—uses microscopic air pockets to both adapt to your stride and absorb shock. Asics’s lightweight FlyteFoam provides a firm bounce and energy return to complement its protective Gel cushioning. Saucony’s Pwrrun+ stream-fuses TPU (thermoplastic polyurethane) beads into the midsole and outsole to deliver a slightly heavier but remarkably responsive ride. Hoka One One combines its marshmallow-soft Profly foam with a rocker-style sole, designed to keep turnover quick and nimble with no loss of comfort. UltraBoost Foam UB foam is resilient and durable in below freezing temps. DNA Loft Foam Tiny air pockets in a mix of EVA and rubber make this Brooks’s softest offering. Profly Foam Hoka One One’s two-part midsole cushions impact and delivers snappy turnover. Fresh Foam X Laser-engraving lightens up this New Balance foam without affecting its softness. Gel Cushioning Asics’s gel-filled heel absorbs shock and helps dampen impact on joints. Just One Factor Our lab tests measure separately how soft or firm a shoe is in the forefoot and heel—measurements that should be considered by forefoot and heel strikers when choosing a cushioned trainer. We use a machine called an “impact tester.” It repeatedly applies weight calibrated to 18.7 pounds—the average weight of the lower leg—onto the shoe’s heel and forefoot using a mechanical arm to simulate footstrikes. Our lab then records the force of impact and how much the midsole compresses to determine scores for softness. A more-cushioned shoe is usually a preferred choice for runners who are prone to injury or want extra protection and support. Of course, if you’re new to that “running-on-clouds” sensation, increase your pace and mileage gradually as you become more familiar with the shoe. Test Editor Amanda Furrer alternates her shoes during a run for comparison testing. Lakota Gambill We remove the upper of the shoe first to accurately measure the softness and cushioning of its midsole. Trevor Raab How We Test Runner’s World has the most comprehensive shoe testing process in the industry. We work with more than 350 local runners of all abilities, ages, and sizes for real-world wear-testing on paved roads, dirt paths, and rocky singletrack. After a month of running more than 100 miles, our testers report back their findings on features like fit, comfort, performance, and ride. While our testers are putting miles on the shoes, the same models undergo a battery of mechanical tests in our Shoe Lab so we can objectively measure cushioning, flexibility, sole thickness, and weight. We’ve combined that lab data and wear-test feedback with our own experience running in these shoes to determine the best of the most cushioned. This content is imported from {embed-name}. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site. —BEST FOR UPTEMPOS— Hoka One One Mach 4 Lakota Gambill Mach 4 Hoka One One hokaoneone.com $130.00 SHOP NOW Early-stage Meta-Rocker encourages smooth, fast transitions Runs large The Mach 4 is incredibly lightweight and has knocked the cushy, race-ready Rincon off its mantel. “It’s the best Mach yet, and perhaps the best current Hoka,” said Runner-in-Chief Jeff Dengate. The updated design is modeled after the brand’s fastest shoes, the Carbon X and Rocket X. ProFly foam promotes high rebound, while the early-stage Meta-Rocker (a slightly curved sole) presses you on to catapult forward. The upgraded upper hugs your foot more securely so you won’t run out of these explosive Machs. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s —BEST FOR STABILITY— Brooks Glycerin GTS 19 Glycerin GTS 19 Brooks zappos.com $149.95 SHOP NOW DNA Loft foam provides plush cushioning and high energy return Guide rails bumper the knee and ankle to promote stability Runs slightly short; considering going up a half size Packed into the Glycerin GTS is plush cushioning, high energy return, and stability that supports overpronators and neutral runners alike. Brooks has redefined its “Go-to-Shoe” acronym as “Go-to-Support” to go along with its new naming convention. The stability counterparts of neutral shoes are now re-dubbed with the neutral shoe’s name and “GTS” attached. In this case, the shoe formerly known as the Transcend is now known as the Glycerin GTS. Its guide rails system—dense foam on the lateral and medial sides of the heel—bumpers erratic knee movement. —BEST FOR LONG RUNS— Saucony Triumph 18 Triumph 18 Saucony amazon.com $149.95 SHOP NOW Very soft midsole still provides high energy return with quicker transitions New upper and streamlined collar feel less bulky Heavier than the Triumph 17 Test editor Amanda Furrer described the Editors’ Choice-winning Triumph 17 as “buttery soft” underfoot. And our lab tests backed this up; both the women’s and men’s models showed the cushioning in the forefoot and heel to be incredibly plush. The 18th version keeps its softness and extraordinarily high energy return but has added flex grooves and a new blown rubber outsole that make an already impressive ride feel even smoother. (The 18 still weighs on the heavy side—in fact, it’s even a bit heftier than the 17—but you wouldn’t know it from its surprisingly propulsive bounce and new streamlined upper.) “Because of its weight, I was doubtful the Triumph would inspire me to pick up the tempo on my morning runs,” Furrer said. “And yet, my smartwatch read race-pace miles on those jaunts, and I became addicted to the shoe’s bounce.” —BEST FOR RECOVERY RUNS— Hoka One One Bondi 7 Bondi 7 Hoka One One hokaoneone.com $150.00 Very tall stack height may feel less stable to some runners Hoka One One’s Bondi is the king of cushioning in its family of maximalist shoes. Our RW Lab measured the Bondi 6 to be extremely soft compared to most shoes tested, and wear-testers couldn’t stop gabbing about the incredibly plush foam. “The rocker-style sole took some getting used to, but I found that my feet and legs weren’t as tired as usual after long runs,” one tester noted. We’re happy to report that plush midsole remains unchanged in the seventh version. The major revision for this update is the new ankle collar made from a softer memory-foam-like material. It’s designed to conform better to narrow and wide heels alike for a secure, Achilles-hugging fit. Plus, the 7 feels just a touch lighter than its predecessor (lab measurements pegged the trainer right in the middle of the pack) with no loss of durability or support. —BEST FOR RACING— Saucony Kinvara 12 Lakota Gambill Kinvara 12 Saucony saucony.com $110.00 SHOP NOW Dual-layer Pwrrun and Pwrrun+ midsole boosts energy return and provides adequate cushioning Lighter than previous version Exposed foam outsole wears after couple of runs The Kinvara returns back to its roots with its 12th iteration; it’s decreased in weight yet retains its soft feel. A dual-layered Pwrrun and Pwrrun+ midsole provides a supportive platform suited for daily training and marathon base building. Heelstrikers appreciated a new tiny patch of rubber underneath the heel, which provides an extra boost during ground contact while absorbing impact. Buy Men’s Buy Women’s —SMOOTHEST RIDE— Asics Gel-Cumulus 22 Lakota Gambill Gel-Cumulus 22 Asics zappos.com $89.95 SHOP NOW Softer midsole compared to past models More lightweight without sacrificing cushioning Improved breathable upper Not peppy enough for speedwork Past models of the Gel-Cumulus were abundant with cushioning but had a clunky ride. The designers improved the Cumulus by carving away foam and rubber underfoot, making the flex grooves deeper, and lengthening the guidance line that runs the length of the shoe. Said a tester, “[The ride is] smoother than a fresh jar of Skippy.” The midsole is softer too, with updated Flyte Foam. The Gel cushioning is left intact in the heel and forefoot to absorb shock. —SOFT AND PLUSH— New Balance Fresh Foam 1080 v11 New Balance Fresh Foam 1080v11 New Balance newbalance.com $149.99 SHOP NOW Stretchier upper accommodates wider feet Fresh Foam X provides higher energy return than original Fresh Foam Some testers noted upper creates extra pressure in the midfoot New Balance cranked up the Fresh Foam for the 1080v9, adding a millimeter of softness underfoot to make the shoe more forgiving. In the 10th iteration, NB upgraded the midsole to Fresh Foam X, which felt soft (but not marshmallowy); laser-engraving shaved off about half an ounce from the previous version, making the shoe look sportier and more lightweight. Fortunately, not much has changed with the v11. Consistent with the v10, that thick slab of Fresh Foam X provides high energy return—and comfort. Shoe designers tweaked the upper, making it stretchier in the forefoot for wider-foot runners. Buy Men’s —BEST VALUE— Reebok Forever Floatride Energy 2 Forever Floatride Energy 2 Reebok amazon.com $100.00 $62.34 (38% off) SHOP NOW Soft, springy ride with high energy return Testers said the upper runs a little warm We loved the low-cost, high-performance combo when we first tested the original Forever Floatride Energy last year , and we like this updated version just as much. With it, Reebok addressed a few fit issues. A new engineered mesh sits closer to your foot and feels more premium, plus the heel fit has been improved by adding high-density foam to cradle your foot and lock it in place. (Our testers noted that the satiny, padded lining feels more luxurious than the shoe’s price tag would suggest.) Underfoot, it feels lighter, bouncier, and more lively than most similarly priced shoes—which typically use less-energetic EVA—and still proves durable for high mileage. Tests at the RW Shoe Lab showed the shoe delivers better than average energy return, especially from the very soft forefoot, yet doesn’t feel mushy when you pick up the pace.  Full Review —BEST FOR TRAILS— Brooks Caldera 5 Lakota Gambill Caldera 5 Brooks zappos.com $139.95 SHOP NOW Thick, responsive BioMoGo DNA midsole Ghillies lacing system provides a locked-in fit TrailTack rubber grips over slick surfaces Heavier than past iterations The Cascadia is Brooks’s premier cushioned trail shoe, but we chose to put the Caldera on this list for its cushy platform that provides an energized ride. Like the 4, the BioMoGo DNA foam is beefed up. The absence of a rock place didn’t cross testers’ minds as they navigated gnarly trails. “The cushioning in this shoe is top notch!” said a tester. “I loved everything about it. I did not feel the sharp rocks under my feet and I loved that when I would rock hop I felt as though I was wearing shock absorbers.”   —BOUNCY AND RESILIENT— Adidas UltraBoost 21 Lakota Gambill UltraBoost 21 Adidas adidas.com $180.00 5 percent more Boost than UltraBoost 19 Upper is made of 92 percent recycled materials Heavy weight (men’s is 12 oz; women’s, just under 11 oz) This 2021 version of the UltraBoost has 20 percent more Boost than the original and 5 percent more than the 19th iteration. It’s also a shoe with a conscience: the Prime Blue upper is made of 92 percent recycled ocean plastic. When it comes to a plush ride that doesn’t lose its bounce below freezing or in the final miles of a long run, the iconic UltraBoost delivers.